!"#$!%&'$!(
, 
*$/%#"!&01!'(0$2
Wolfgang Kramer
An Entertaining Family Game for 2-6  Players ,   Ages 10+

2 Players
12 Cards
3 Players
     16 Cards
4 Players
      20 Cards
5o6 Players
        24 Cards
Goal of the Game
Game Preparation
The goal is to complete as many lucrative transportation contracts
as possible to earn money.  Because at the end of the game
the player with the most cash wins.
Place the goods cubes on the loading 
space of the game board.  Put the 
traffic jam and construction signs 
into their plastic bases and place 
them next to the game board.  
Shuffle the event cards and put  
them face-down on the appropriate  
space on the game board.
Give each player starting capital of 
5,000 å. The remaining money is given
to a player to manage as the banker. 
  
Shuffle the contract cards and deal 3 contracts to each 
player, which they should keep concealed from the other  
players. Now, depending on the number of players, a different
number of cards are placed in a face-down pile next to the
game board to form a draw pile:
Place the remaining cards back in the box.  Take the top 4
contract cards from the draw pile and place them face-up onto
the four contract card spaces on the game board
Each player chooses a truck and places it on any space of the
game board. In selecting locations, players should look at their
contract cards.  You can place your truck in a city that is the
starting point for one of your contracts.
Trucks, Freight and Money dominate the transport 
trade between Flensburg and Verona.  The competition
among carriers requires sophisticated route planning, 
tense price struggles, and optimal utilization of truck
cargo space. Different events happen that can make
life easier or harder for the drivers. Wise planning
and – like so often in life – a bit of luck may give you
the edge you hope for.
 
Components
P Game Board
6 5SVDLT
8 Trailer Cards 
(4 small, 4 large
TS Contract Cards
QW Event Cards
SW Goods Cubes
2 %JDF
P Traffic Jam Sign
P Construction Sign
Game Money 
(30 x 100 €, 15 x 500 €, 
40 x 1000 €, 15 x 5000 €, 
5 x 10000 €)

Gameplay
Dice and Driving
The starting player is the person to have driven the longest
route this month. On his turn, a player rolls both dice and then
moves his truck in any direction according to the number of
pips shown on one of the dice.  A player must move the full
value of the chosen die unless he reaches the traffic jam or
construction signs, or the starting or ending city on one of his
contract cards, in which case he may stop and forfeit the rest
of his movement.  It is permitted to drive through spaces with
trucks.  No more than 2 trucks can occupy a highway space at
the end of a turn.  City spaces have no limit.  The two ferries 
can be used like normal road spaces (Rotterdam-Flensburg is 3
spaces, Flensburg-Rostock is 2
.  There are no extra costs.
If you roll a 6 you may choose any value for the die from 1 to 6.
This makes it easier to land on a city by exact count in order to
acquire public contracts.
Event Spaces are
marked with a red & 
white triangle.  When 
a player lands on an
event space by exact 
count he must draw 
the top card of the
event card deck and
follow the instructions
on the card.  After 
completing the 
required action, the
event card is removed
from the game.
If a player can not pay
the cost of an event 
card he must place the card face-up beside him until he can pay
double the amount due.
Note: The event cards are mostly positive.
Construction Sign: When a player 
rolls and chooses a 1 (or a 6 as a 1
he first moves his truck one space
and then must place the construc- 
tion sign on the board or move it if
it is already in play.  The sign must
be placed on an unoccupied high-  
way space.  It may not be placed on a city space.  The sign
disables that section of highway - trucks may not move through 
it.
The Traffic Jam Sign comes into 
play through some event cards and 
is valid for only one round. It closes
one area to traffic, forcing trucks to
wait or make a detour.
  
Contracts:
Each contract card shows a starting city and destination. To 
initiate a contract, a player must end his movement at the start 
city shown on the card. Any excess movement that was rolled
can be ignored when initiating a contract.  The player then
places the contract card face-up in front of him on the table
and loads into his truck the number of goods cubes shown on 
the card. This ends the playerhs turn.  On his next turn the
player is not required to drive directly to the destination city,
but instead may choose to initiate additional contracts in order  
to maximize the use of his cargo space. 
If a player receives a contract card while his truck is in the start
city for that card, he may immediately initiate that contract pro-
vided he has sufficient space to accomodate the entire load.
When a player arrives at the destination for one of his initiated
contracts (extra rolled movement is ignored
, he unloads the
goods for the contract and places them back into the stock pile
on the board. The player then receives the contracths payment
from the bank and removes the completed card from the game.
Once a player has finished his turn, the next player clockwise 
takes their turn.
Important: each truck can hold a maximum of 6 goods. A 
contract must always be fully executed. It is not possible to 
load only part of a contract. If a player has insufficient capacity
for a contract he may buy a trailer.
Trailer: To transport more than 6 goods a player may, during 
his turn, purchase as many trailers as he desires to increase
his loading capacity by 4 and 6 goods respectively. Purchased
trailer cards are placed on the table in front of the player and  
can be loaded with additional goods whenever needed. A player
keeps purchased trailer cards for the rest of the game. During his
turn a player can sell any of his trailer cards for 500 å each, 
regardless of the size of the trailer. A player who still has trailer 
cards at the end of the game receives no money for them. They 
are worthless. Available are:
Number 
of goods  
that must 
be trans-
ported
Start City
End City
Payment 
by the 
bank
Net
Revenue
Cost of
public 
procurement
QFSTPO UP IBWF
f
b
N
f

- Schmidt Spiele GmbH 
Postfach 470437 
D-12313 Berlin
www.schmidtspiele.de
Whenever a player arrives at a city by exact count (does not
forfeit any movement points
 and he is not interested in any of 
the public contracts, the contract closest to the loading dock
is removed from the game. Then slide the remaining contracts
in the direction of the arrows and draw a new contract card to
place in the freed-up public contract box in the corner. This
release of public contracts is specifically designed to end the
game and is a good way to speed up the game.  
The game ends immediately if there are no more public 
contracts on the board and a player has completed all of their
contracts. It does not matter in what order these two events
occur. The player with the most money wins the game. 
Unfinished contracts are worthless.
&YBNQMF 
4 players (RED, YELLOW, BLUE & GREEN
 are playing. RED 
chooses the BerlinoTrieste contract. YELLOW passes. 
BLUE skips bid 1 and immediately bids 2. GREEN is also
interested in the contract and bids 3. RED bids the same (3
. 
He has selected the contract and does not need to increase 
the bid. BLUE now passes. GREEN now increases the bid to 
SM RED now passes. GREEN wins the contract and immediL 
ately pays 2800 å to the bank. Upon delivery he will receive
3900 å in freight revenue. His profit is therefore 1100 å.
Simplified Game Variant 
for Children from 8 Years Old:
The basic rules of the game apply, with the following 
changes:
1.  During preparation each player receives 5 contract
cards in their hand. 
2.  The stack for public procurement contains only 10 
cards, of which 4 cards are placed face-up on the
appropriate spaces on the board.
3.  The trailer cards are not used. Each truck has a 
capacity of only 6 goods. 
4.  Whenever the starting city of a public contract is 
reached, that contract may be taken. The contracts 
are not sold at auction! If the player can immediately
load the necessary goods into their truck, the contract
is placed face-up in front of them. If the goods cannot  
be loaded, the contract card is taken into their hand.
The contract can then be loaded later by revisiting the
starting city (with sufficient empty cargo space
.
After that, a new contract card is laid out. The arrows in 
this version have no meaning. The bid table on the
contract cards is irrelevant.
Public Procurement:
When a player arrives at any city by exact count, he may select
one of the 4 face-up "public" contract cards on the board and 
express interest in acquiring it. If the player had to forego  
excess movement points in order to stop on the city, or arrived  
there by an event card, he may not select one of the public 
contract cards. 
If a player selects a public contract, other players who are also
interested in that contract (or want to drive up the price for it
may bid for it. 
All players may in turn - as in an auction - make a bid. The
player to the left of the person who selected the contract starts 
the bidding, followed by the other players in turn (clockwise
who must increase the bid or pass. The player who selected the  
contract has an advantage. He does not have to bid higher than 
his competitors in order to obtain the contract.  His bid only has 
to equal the previous bid. The players who did not pass can 
continue another round of bidding and either increase the bid 
or pass.
All bids are made in accordance with the bids ("Angebot"
numbered 1o 5 that are printed on the contract card. The table 
shows the cost and net proceeds for each bid.
The player who wins the auction must immediately pay the 
purchase price from the cost table to the bank. Credit is not
granted. If no other player places a bid, the player who selected
the contract obtains it for no cost.
The player then takes the contract into his hand and may 
initiate it whenever he reaches the starting city, or may initiate
it immediately if he is already in the starting city and has 
enough free cargo space available.
Whenever there is a gap in the public contracts, slide the 
remaining contracts in the direction of the arrows and fill the 
gap. Draw a new contract card from the deck and place it in 
the open public contract space in the corner of the board.
Four large trailers with space for
6 additional goods at a price of
3000 å per trailer, and
four small trailers with a loading
capacity of 4 additional goods at a 
price of 2000 å per trailer.
Game End