B
A
N
C
L
K
D
Q
P
J
M
E
1st Round
Display area
2nd Round
3rd Round
4th Round
Supply
H
O
G
F
I
1 80
1 80
Game Setup
King Manuel I has commissioned the best garden designers of Portugal to construct the most 
extraordinary garden for his wife, Queen Maria of Aragon.
In Azul - Queen’s Garden, players are tasked to arrange a magnificent garden for the King’s lovely 
wife by arranging beautiful plants, trees and ornamental features.
Using an innovative drafting mechanism, signature of the Azul series, players must carefully 
select colorful tiles to decorate their garden. Only the most incredible garden designers will 
flourish and win the Queen’s blessing.
1.	Each player chooses a color and receives:
 • 1 garden board (A) and places it in front of them,
 • 1 storage (B) and places it next to their garden board,
 • 1 fountain board (C) and places it in the middle of their garden,
 • 3 jokers (D) and places them on empty spaces of their storage.
2.	Place the scoring board (E) with the central icon 
 visible, 
in the middle of the table. Assemble the rotary wheel (F) and 
set it on its starting position. Put the evaluation marker (G) at 
the top of the evaluation track.
3.	 Each player takes a scoring marker (H) in their color and 
places it on the 15th space of the scoring track.
4.	 Fill the bag (I) with all 108 colored tiles (J). 
5. Shuffle the 36 garden expansions and build 4 face down round 
stacks, according to the number of players:
 • in a 2-player game, place 5 garden expansions per stack,
 • in a 3-player game, place 7 garden expansions per stack,
 • in a 4-player game, place 8 garden expansions per stack.
	
Create the display area by placing the 1st round stack (K) in 
the middle of the table. Place the 3 following round stacks (L) 
in a row, above the scoring board. 
	
Fill the top garden expansion of the 1st round stack with exactly 
4 tiles drawn randomly from the bag (the spaces on that garden 
expansion are not used at this point).
6. Build a supply next to the stack row by stacking the remaining 
garden expansions, and put the shield token (M) on top of it. 
7.	 Place the first player marker (N) in the display area.
8.	 Place the tower (O) next to the scoring board and the jokers (P) 
next to it.
9.	 Put the point tokens (Q) aside, they will be used during 
scoring.
Return any unused garden boards, storages, fountain boards and 
scoring markers to the box.
Queen’s Garden

Object of the game
During 4 rounds, your objective is to create the most beautiful garden by arranging patterns and colors that will score you points and 
lead you to victory.
A) Acquire tiles and garden expansions
Select a pattern or color from the display area according to one of 
the following options:
	
• take ALL tiles and garden expansions of the chosen pattern, 
but with different colors, OR 
	
• take ALL tiles and garden expansions of the chosen color, 
but with different patterns. 
If two or more hexagons are identical in your selection, you must 
take only one of them (the one of your choice). 
All tiles and garden expansions you acquire must be placed in 
your storage. Your storage has a limited number of spaces: 12 for 
the tiles and 2 for the garden expansions. If you don’t have enough 
space in your storage for all selected hexagons, this selection 
cannot be made.
Gameplay
Pattern
The 6 patterns are the heart of the game and will allow you 
to decorate your garden. 
They are distributed evenly among the 6 colors of the game.
Each has an associated value which indicates both: a cost
 * 
and a number of points
 * . 
Their design has been developed to allow you to remember 
the value of each pattern (ex.: the bird has 2 wings, 
3 butterflies, a flower with 4 petals, etc.) 
Hexagon
This term refers to any combination 
composed of a pattern and a color. 
A hexagon can be found on a tile or 
on a garden expansion.
Each round consists of the following 3 phases: 
Phase 1: Players actions (until all players have passed)
Phase 2: Scoring (4 times per game)
Phase 3: Prepare the next round (this phase is not performed in 
the last round)
Each round starts with the starting player. For the first round, 
the youngest player starts the game.
Phase 1: Players Actions
On your turn, choose one of the following actions: 
	
A) Acquire tiles and garden expansions
	
B) Place a tile
	
C) Place a garden expansion
	
D) Pass
Phase 1 continues in clockwise order until all players have passed.
•	 If you took at least one tile from the current round stack:
	»Remove the topmost garden expansion from the round stack 
along with any remaining tiles on it and place that garden 
expansion directly on the table, next to the stack to extend 
the display area. 
	»Then, fill the topmost garden expansion of the round stack 
with exactly 4 tiles drawn randomly from the bag.
•	Furthermore, if one or more garden expansions are empty 
(no more tiles on them) in the display area, turn them 
face up. By doing so, those garden expansions now show 
a pavilion in their center and a hexagon. Those garden 
expansions become available for the players.

Example
Now on Ina’s turn, she also chooses 
to acquire hexagons. She selects all 
bird tiles but she can only take one of 
the two yellow birds. She decides to 
take the yellow bird from the garden 
expansion with only one tile.
Since she is taking the green bird 
tile, she removes the top garden 
expansion to extend the display area. 
Then, she refills the stack.
Finally, she turns the empty garden 
expansion face up and finishes her 
turn.
On a later turn, a player may take 
the face up garden expansion, if their 
selection includes the tree pattern or 
the light green color. 
Michael wants to place a blue butterfly tile in 
his garden. The cost of placing a butterfly is 3.
In addition to the blue butterfly tile he wants 
to place in his garden, Michael must discard 2 
other hexagons from his storage.
Michael plays first and chooses to acquire 
tiles and garden expansions. He has the 
following options. He may:
 • take all hexagons with the same color 
(ex.: all blue tiles), OR 
 • take all hexagons with the same 
pattern (ex.: all bird tiles).
Michael chooses the blue hexagons. 
He takes the 3 blue tiles and places 
them on empty spaces of his storage. 
Since he has taken tiles from the round 
stack, he must place the top garden 
expansion next to the stack, in the display 
area, and leave the remaining bird tile on it. 
Then he refills the top garden expansion of the 
stack with exactly 4 tiles drawn from the bag.
B) Place a tile
Select a tile from your storage and pay its 
cost to place it in your garden.
Paying a cost:
Each pattern appearing on tiles or garden 
expansions has its own placement cost displayed on the top of 
your garden board.
Pay the cost by discarding that number of tiles and/or garden 
expansions from your storage including the selected tile 
or garden expansion that you want to place. Pay the cost 
according to one of the following options:
 • all discarded hexagons must show the same pattern but be 
of different colors, OR
 • all discarded hexagons must be of the same color but 
showing different patterns.
Place the discarded tiles into the tower. Return the discarded 
garden expansions face down at the bottom of the supply stack. 
Paying with jokers:
If you do not have enough tiles and/or garden expansions of the 
required pattern or color in your storage, or if you do not want 
to use them, you may complete the payment with jokers.
In this case, you must minimally have the hexagon you want to 
place (a joker cannot be placed in your garden). For each other 
needed hexagons, you may discard one joker. Return discarded 
jokers back to the supply. 
joker(s) to replace any hexagon
same color, but different patterns
same pattern, but different colors
cannot include identical hexagons

D) PASS
You may pass if you do not want to acquire or place anymore 
hexagons, and you must pass if you cannot perform any of 
the aforementioned actions. If you pass, you may discard any 
number of hexagons from your storage and score the values of all 
discarded hexagons as minus points.
The first player to pass receives the first player marker and moves 
back their scoring marker 1 space on the scoring track. A player 
who has passed can no longer take turns for the rest of phase 1. 
When all players have passed, phase 1 is over.
C) Place a garden expansion
Garden expansions provide 5 or 7 additional spaces for tiles. Either:
•	 select a garden expansion from your storage and pay its cost 
(see page 4 for details about paying a cost), OR
•	 take a face down garden expansion (providing 7 free spaces) 
from the supply by spending exactly 6 points on the scoring 
track (a player’s score cannot be negative).
Place the chosen garden expansion on a free expansion area around 
your fountain board and in the orientation of your choice while 
following the same placement rules as for the tiles (see left column).
Phase 2: SCORING
Starting with the first player, each player calculates their round 
score. The rotary wheel indicates the 3 scored patterns or colors for 
the round. For each hexagon in your garden matching the pattern 
or the color indicated by the wheel, you score a number of points. 
The same hexagon can be scored twice (for its pattern and for its 
color). Then each player scores 1 point for each visible pavilion in 
their garden. When all players have scored, phase 2 is over.
The scoring track is continuous. Use the point tokens of your color 
accordingly, so that you can keep track of your total score.
Phase 3: PREPARE THE NEXT ROUND
Turn the rotary wheel clockwise to its next position indicated by 
the lines. In the display area, discard all remaining tiles from the face 
down garden expansions into the tower, and return to the supply all 
remaining garden expansions by turning them face down.
Place the next round stack in the display area and fill the top of 
that stack with exactly 4 tiles drawn randomly from the bag.
The owner of the first player marker places it in the display area 
near the next round stack and starts the new round.
The selected tile must be placed on a free space (not occupied by a 
hexagon or garden element) of your garden either: 
 • without any adjacent hexagons, OR
 • adjacent to one or more hexagons. In this case, the pattern or 
the color of the tile must be the same as at least one of the 
adjacent hexagons. 
Note: At any time during the game, if there are not enough tiles in the bag to fill a garden expansion, put back all tiles from the tower into the 
bag. If there are still not enough tiles in the bag, the game goes on with fewer tiles or even no tiles on the stack. In this latter case, all empty 
garden expansions from the current round stack are placed face up in the display area.
If you completely surround a fountain, a statue, a bench or a 
pavilion, you receive jokers from the supply according to the 
surrounded element. Those jokers must be immediately placed 
in your storage. If you do not have enough space in your storage, 
jokers in excess are lost. The jokers are not limited. If jokers are no 
longer available in the supply, please use any adequate substitute.
A group is formed when at least two hexagons of identical 
patterns or identical colors, but not both, are adjacent. 
One hexagon can be part of a group for its pattern and 
also be part of another group for its color.
Note: Regardless of whether it is directly with the hexagon you 
are placing or by connecting hexagons together, you are not 
allowed to create or extend a group that would then contain 
2 identical hexagons (same pattern and same color).

1+2+3+6=
1+2+3+4+5+6=
3+4+5+6=
1+1+1+1+1=
3+3+3+3=
3+3+3=
1+1= 2
-4
Credits
© 2021 Plan B Games Inc. All rights reserved.
19 rue de la Coopérative, Rigaud, QC J0P 1P0, Canada
info@planbgames.com | www.planbgames.com
No part of this product may be reproduced without specific 
permission. Retain this information for your record.
Made in China
Development by:
End of the game
The game ends after all players have passed during the 4th round. 
A last “end-of-round” scoring takes place, as usual, followed by 
the final scoring.
Final Scoring
Each player empties their storage. For each remaining joker, 
they score 1 point. For each remaining tile or garden expansion, 
they score minus points according to the pattern appearing on it 
(tree= -1, bird= -2, etc.). 
The evaluation marker is then moved to the first step of the 
evaluation track (a blue hexagon). That track shows the 6 colors 
followed by the 6 patterns. Proceeding from top to bottom of 
the track, each color is evaluated, followed by each pattern. 
Each player scores any group of at least 3 hexagons matching 
the current evaluation. There is no limit to the number of groups 
a player may score for the same evaluation. A group is scored by 
calculating the points for each single hexagon, in function of their 
pattern (see the values on the right side of the scoring board).
Furthermore, 6 additional bonus points 
are scored for each group of 6 hexagons.
At the end of the final scoring, whoever has the most points is 
the winner. In the case of a tie, the tied-players share victory.
 Game Variant
For a slightly different play, turn the 
scoring board so the central icon 
 
is visible and assemble the rotary 
wheel on that side during setup. 
All rules are identical to those of the 
normal game, with the following 
exceptions:
	» Patterns score differently in phase 2.
	» More additional bonus points 
are scored for groups during 
the final scoring. 
Final Scoring Example
Michael proceeds with his final score and 
adjusts his scoring marker accordingly on 
the scoring track.
He starts with his storage:
Then, he scores his garden:
Bonus: group of 6 =
First group
Second group
Note: These 2 tiles form a group 
of only 2 hexagons. This group 
is not scored, since only groups of 
at least 3 hexagons are evaluated.
Michael Kiesling
Sophie Gravel
Martin Bouchard,
André Bierth,
Moritz Thiele,
Anh Tú Tran
Designer: 
Producer: 
Development: 
 
Art Direction: 
Illustration:
Graphic Design: 
3D modelling:
Editing:
Sophie Gravel
Chris Quilliams
Tarek Saoudi,
Nina Allen
Tarek Saoudi
Martin Bouchard

Rulebook
QUEEN’S GARDEN
QUEEN’S GARDEN