DEADWOOD 1876
2-9 Players | Ages 13+ | 20-40 Minutes

[Note: This rulebook PDF is image-based (scanned/graphic layout) with no
embedded text layer. This transcription was produced by visually reading
each rendered page of source_pdfs/deadwood-1876-rules.pdf.]

== OVERVIEW ==

There's gold in the Black Hills of South Dakota, and you've come to find
(or steal) your share. You're staying at one of the three major
establishments in town where you and your associates are plotting to
steal some of the gold-filled Safes floating around town. But you
suspect that the "friends" you're working with are secretly collecting
guns. Why? So they can use them against you in a Final Showdown and keep
all the gold for themselves. Will you be ready to turn on them before
they shoot you in the back?

== OBJECTIVE ==

In Deadwood 1876 you'll use guns from your hand to try to win Safes from
other players. Most Safes contain Badges, Gold, or Showdown Guns. Near
the end of the game, players with Badges get extra turns. After the
final turn, the team with the most Gold will advance to the Final
Showdown. There, teammates will have to fight each other to the death
using Showdown Guns from their Safes and guns from their hand. The last
person alive is the winner!

== CONTENTS ==

- 3 Wooden Platforms (establishments: Gem Theatre, Saloon, Grand Central
  Hotel)
- 9 Wooden Star Pawns (one color per player)
- 9 Character Cards
- 10 Wooden Dice (5 colors: Messenger [black], Winchester [red],
  Colt [red - see stats page for exact color/labels], Deringer [orange],
  Pepperbox [yellow])
- Linen Bag
- 25 Safe Cards (5 Badges, 5 Mystery Safes, 7 Guns, 8 Gold Values)
- 50 Deadwood Cards (10 of each: Horse, Duster, Stetson, Holster, and
  guns) -- card breakdown given later: 10 Horse, 12 Duster, 13 Stetson,
  15 Holster (guns are distributed among these as the "gun" side of cards)
- 2 Reference Cards

== SET UP ==

1. Place the three establishment platforms in the center of the playing
   area. (In 2-3 player games, remove the Grand Central Hotel so that
   there are only two establishments.)
2. Each player chooses a character card. Place matching stars in the bag
   and place any unused stars back in the box. Beginning with the Gem
   Theatre and moving clockwise, pull stars out of the bag and place them
   in establishments one at a time. Your matching star represents you in
   the game. (In 4-player games, do not place any stars in the Grand
   Central Hotel, though players may still move there during the game.)
3. Shuffle the stack of Deadwood cards and deal four face down to each
   player (deal only three for 8-9 player games). Place the remaining
   Deadwood cards face down in a deck in the center of the playing area.
4. Find the five Safes that have a silver border on the front and place
   them back in the game box. Shuffle all remaining Safes. Place three of
   these Safes in a face down stack in the middle of the playing area
   (place only two for 8-9 player games). Deal two Safes, face down, to
   each player. Place any remaining Safes back in the game box without
   viewing them. These Safes will not be in play.
   If you are playing with an experienced group, you may shuffle in any
   number of the silver-bordered "Mystery" Safes during step 4. View
   optional advanced rules for details.
5. All players view their two Safes and then choose one to pass, face
   down, to the player on their left. All players view and shuffle their
   new set of Safes and then place them face down in a row in front of
   them.

== HOW TO PLAY ==

Everyone rolls a black die. The highest roller goes first. Proceed
clockwise.

--- ON YOUR TURN ---

On your turn you will play one Deadwood card from your hand. It can be
used either as the special item on the bottom of the card OR as the gun
on top of the card.

IF YOU CHOOSE TO UTILIZE THE CARD'S SPECIAL ITEM: just follow the
directions written on the card.

IF YOU CHOOSE TO UTILIZE THE CARD'S GUN: you can instigate either a
Robbery or a Duel.

ROBBERY: In a Robbery, you attempt to steal a Safe from another player.
Lay down a gun from your hand face up in front of a specific Safe
belonging to another player. The defending player must play one of the
guns from their hand to defend it. You and the defender simultaneously
roll the dice that match your played guns. Reroll to break ties. If you
have the higher final result then you successfully steal the Safe.
Privately view the stolen Safe and shuffle it with your other Safes
before laying them back down in a row. If the defender has the higher
final result, the defender keeps the Safe and nothing gets shuffled.

DUEL: Winning a Duel lets you change certain star positions. Lay down a
gun from your hand face up in front of another player's character card.
The defending player must play one of the guns from their hand in
defense. You and the defender simultaneously roll the dice that match
your played guns. Reroll to break ties. If you have the higher final
result, you swap star positions with the defender. If you attack and
defeat someone in your own establishment, instead of swapping, you send
that player to an establishment of your choice if it has a vacancy (see
establishment capacity table). If the defender succeeds, nothing
happens.

ESTABLISHMENT CAPACITY:
  2-5 Players ......... 2 / establishment
  6-8 Players ......... 3 / establishment
  9 Players ........... 4 / establishment

Each gun corresponds with a die that has its own specific values on it.
Using a high-powered gun like a Messenger will give you better odds of
victory compared to a weaker gun, such as a Pepperbox.

HOLSTERS: Unlike other special items, Holsters are played out of turn
before a Robbery or Duel dice roll. If you are not the attacker or
defender, you may assist either of them by giving them a holster from
your hand. Assisted players roll the die matching the gun they played
and the die on the Holster card they were given and add both dice to
determine their total score. Only one Holster may be used by each
battling player. If a player is given multiple Holsters, the recipient
chooses which Holster to use and returns the others to their owners.

After each turn, all used cards are discarded and anyone who used a
card during the turn (the current player, the defender, and anyone who
played a Holster) draws a Deadwood card so that all players again have 4
cards in their hand (or three in 8-9 player games).

Whenever the deck runs out, shuffle the discard pile and reform the
deck.

--- AFTER EACH TIME AROUND THE CIRCLE: HEIST ---

Each time the last player in the circle completes their turn, a Heist
occurs! Reveal the top Safe card from the middle so everyone can see its
contents. Each player plays a gun from their hand simultaneously and
rolls accordingly. The highest roller takes the Safe and shuffles it
face down with their other Safes. Reroll for ties. Played guns are
discarded, each player draws a replacement card, and play continues
around the circle in the same order.

After the final Heist has occurred, each player will get one final turn,
meaning players will each have a total of four turns during the game (or
three turns each in 8-9 player games).

Hint: If necessary, place the game box between the first and last player
so that you remember to Heist each time the last player takes their
turn.

--- AFTER THE FINAL TURNS: BADGE ROUND ---

After the last player's final turn, players must reveal Badges one at a
time and take an extra turn as their Badge is revealed. Reveal in this
order:
  1st: Tin
  2nd: Iron
  3rd: Copper
  4th: Silver
  5th: Gold

If nobody claims to have a certain Badge, then it isn't in play and you
should move on to the next one.

--- AFTER THE BADGE ROUND: FINAL SHOWDOWN & WINNING THE GAME ---

All players reveal all remaining Safes. The players within each
establishment add their combined gold together, and the players in the
establishment with the most Gold all advance to the Final Showdown!
Players who did not advance are out of the game. Better luck next time.

If multiple establishments are tied for the most Gold, the tied
establishment with the fewest players advances. If still tied, all
players in the tied establishments advance to the Final Showdown
together.

If you are the only player to advance, YOU WIN!

If multiple players advance, THEY MUST ALL FIGHT TO THE DEATH!

- When fighting to the death, each advancing player simultaneously plays
  a card from his or her hand. Each player then rolls dice matching the
  gun he or she played plus dice that match all of his or her Showdown
  Guns. The player with the lowest roll total must flip his or her
  character card to the black and white side. Reroll to break ties.
- Continue repeating the process above. If your card is already on the
  black and white side and you lose again, you are out of the game! THE
  LAST PLAYER ALIVE KEEPS ALL THE GOLD AND WINS THE GAME! Let out a
  hearty "Yee-haw!"
- Deadwood cards can be used only as guns, and unlike before, cards will
  not be replenished after each roll. If multiple players are still
  alive after running out of Deadwood cards, they each pick up the hand
  of cards they had going into the Final Showdown and continue fighting
  (so play cards close to you and do not put them in the discard pile).
  Be sure to add your Showdown Guns to every roll during the Final
  Showdown!

(Example: If Holly plays a Colt from her hand and also has a Winchester
Showdown Gun in her Safe, she will get to roll both a Colt and a
Winchester for her roll. Next, she plays a Deringer from her hand. She
will get to roll both a Deringer and a Winchester for her roll since the
Winchester is used in all rolls during the Final Showdown.)

If you are the lowest roller, flip over your character card. If it
happens again, you're out of the game.

== THE 3 LAWS OF DEADWOOD ==

1. You may shuffle your Safe cards only immediately after gaining a Safe
   from a Robbery or Heist. Otherwise, they must remain face down in a
   row in their same positions. You may view your own Safes at any time,
   including if one of your Safes is being attacked, but be sure to not
   get them out of order.
2. You may never show Safe cards or cards in your hand to other players,
   although you can tell teammates or enemies anything you'd like.
   Communication and deception is encouraged.
3. There is a three Safe limit! If a player owns three Safes and they
   win a fourth Safe from a Robbery or Heist, they must choose any one of
   their Safes to give to the player with the fewest Safes (you pick the
   recipient if there is a tie). The recipient of the free Safe may not
   shuffle their Safe cards at that time. This law is no longer in effect
   once the Badge Round begins.

Note: 2-3 Player games involve several adjustments to the rules. View
those before starting.

== GAMEPLAY STRATEGY TIPS ==

Deadwood is a balance between teamwork and selfishness. If a player uses
all of their best Deadwood cards and Badges to hunt down Gold for their
team, they'll be defenseless to fight against their teammates in the
Final Showdown. But if a player only goes after Showdown Guns and saves
all of their best cards, their team might not have enough Gold to
actually reach the Final Showdown. If someone on your team doesn't seem
to be pulling their weight, they're probably plotting to use your Gold
to reach the Final Showdown and then destroy you! There may come a point
when you need to attack, mislead, frame, abandon, or banish your own
teammates.

Since you'll only get a handful of turns, communicate with allies and
gather clues by observing what other players say and do with their
Safes. If you don't have much Gold, you can always use a Horse, or Duel
your way into an establishment filled with Gold on your final turn so
that you can make it into the Final Showdown. You can also persuade
players with lots of Gold to join your establishment, or trick
undesirable players into leaving your establishment. Deadwood is not a
memory game so feel free to use your phone or pen and paper to write
down where you know (or suspect) certain Safes are hiding.

Be sure to manage the guns in your hand. If you attack and defend every
Safe with your best gun, you may be stuck with weak guns when it really
counts. Sometimes it's worth it to use a bad gun and lose a Safe to
improve your hand of cards.

== CARD DETAILS ==
(read if questions arise)

BADGES: If your Badge is stolen during the Badge Round before you get to
use it, too bad! It now belongs to the other player. If you own multiple
Badges you will get multiple turns in the Badge Round. As referenced in
the 3rd Law of Deadwood, Safe limits no longer apply once the Badge
Round begins. Cards are replenished like normal during the Badge Round.
Revealed Badges have no value and can not be attacked.

DUSTER: Discard your Duster and then draw four Deadwood cards. Of your
now larger hand of seven cards (or six in 8 and 9-player games), discard
three cards so that at the end of your turn you again have four in your
hand (or three in 8 and 9-player games). Play then moves on to the next
player.

HOLSTER: Holsters can be played on an attacker's or defender's gun (but
not both) by anyone who is not the primary attacker or defender.
Therefore, you can never give a Holster to yourself or a person you are
fighting against. Rolls should happen simultaneously, but if a player
rushes their roll before receiving a Holster, their roll counts and they
cannot receive a Holster (but their opponent still can). If a group is
picky about the order that Holsters should be played, play in the order
of attacker, defender, Holster for attacker, Holster for defender.
Holsters continue to be used for tiebreak rolls. Only one Holster may be
used by each battling player. If a player is given multiple Holsters,
the recipient chooses which Holster to use and returns the others to
their owners. If given at least one Holster a recipient cannot refuse to
use one. Holsters may not be used in Heists or the Final Showdown.

HORSE: Move your star to any other establishment with a vacancy (see
establishment capacity table). Unless using the optional advanced "horse
thief" rule, the color of the Horse does not matter.

SHOWDOWN GUNS: Showdown Guns are only used in the Final Showdown. As an
example, if Holly plays a Colt from her hand and also has a Winchester
Showdown Gun in her Safe, she will get to roll both a Colt and a
Winchester in her Final Showdown roll. Next, she plays a Deringer from
her hand. She will get to roll both a Deringer and a Winchester for her
roll since the Winchester is used in all rolls during the Final
Showdown.

STETSON: View any two Safe cards. They don't need to belong to the same
player. Be sure to place them back in their same positions after
viewing. Also be sure that nobody else sees the front of the Safes when
you view them. You cannot view Safes that will be used in future Heists
or Safes that are not in play.

== STATS ==

ODDS OF WINNING A SHOOTOUT (row die beats column die probability table;
guns ranked by die strength: Messenger (strongest) > Winchester > Colt >
Deringer > Pepperbox (weakest)):

              Messenger  Winchester  Colt  Deringer  Pepperbox
Messenger        50%        33%       19%     7%        3%
Winchester        67%        50%       31%    14%        7%
Colt              81%        69%       50%    31%       18%
Deringer          93%        86%       69%    50%       31%
Pepperbox         97%        93%       82%    69%       50%

(Read as: the row gun's odds of winning a shootout against the column
gun.)

CARD COUNTS:
50 Deadwood Cards (10 of each gun):
  10 Horse
  12 Duster
  13 Stetson
  15 Holster
25 Safe Cards:
  5 Badges
  5 Mystery Safes
  7 Guns
  8 Gold Values

== OPTIONAL ADVANCED RULES ==

If you're an experienced group of Deadwood players, feel free to try out
any or all of these optional advanced rules!

MYSTERY SAFES: Shuffle in any number of silver-bordered Mystery Safes
during step 4 of Set Up. If any player has a Mystery Safe with a star on
it they must reveal and resolve it immediately after the final turn of
the Badge Round before the rest of the Safes are revealed. If multiple
starred cards are revealed, resolve them in alphabetical order (Dagger,
Explosives, Poker Deck). Details of each Mystery Safe:

BAD SARSAPARILLA: Owner is unable to use their best Showdown Gun in the
Final Showdown. If the owner does not own a Showdown Gun or does not go
to the Final Showdown, Bad Sarsaparilla does nothing. Bad Sarsaparilla
has no effect on the Dagger.

CASH: Owner automatically advances to the Final Showdown even if their
team does not have the most Gold. The team with the most gold also
advances. The gold owned by the Cash player still counts towards their
team's total. In 2-player games, if you, your opponent, and the Stranger
all go to the Final Showdown (because of Cash), the Stranger is removed
and you fight your opponent to the death.

DAGGER (starred): Reveal immediately after the final turn of the Badge
Round. When revealed, owner must decide if the dagger is Worth -1 Gold
and a Pepperbox Showdown Gun, or +1 Gold and a negative Pepperbox
Showdown Gun. For a negative Pepperbox, after each roll in the Final
Showdown (including tie-break rolls) a Pepperbox die is rolled and the
result is subtracted from the player's roll total.

EXPLOSIVES (starred): Reveal immediately after the final turn of the
Badge Round. When revealed, owner chooses any 1 unrevealed Safe
belonging to another player to remove from the game. Show all players
the Safe that is being removed.

POKER DECK (starred): Reveal immediately after the final turn of the
Badge Round. When revealed, owner must play any gun from their hand and
roll the matching die. Next, roll a red die. If the red die is a 0 or 1,
the result from the first die is subtracted from the owner's gold total.
If the red die is a 2 or 3, the result from the first die is added to
the owner's gold total. Replace the played card from the deck.

"PEACE-LOVIN'" TEAM VICTORY: If nobody in the Final Showdown owns a
Showdown Gun, all advancing players win together! If at least one
advancing player does own a Showdown Gun, all advancing players fight to
the death as normal. Showdown Guns cancelled by Bad Sarsaparilla do not
count as Showdown Guns.

"FAIR SHARE" TEAM VICTORY: Only use for 6-9 player games. If everyone in
the Final Showdown has at least 1 Gold, the advancing players all win
together! If any advancing player has zero or negative Gold, all
advancing players fight to the death as normal.

HORSE THIEF: If you have a white-colored Horse you may play it
immediately after the attacker and defender have laid down guns for a
Robbery. You will be a "Horse Thief" and roll the gun on your Horse card
during the Robbery. If you roll higher than both the attacker and
defender, you take the Safe that was being fought over. Highest rollers
reroll to break ties. Horse thieves cannot give or receive Holsters, and
the Laws of Deadwood still apply (so if you win a Safe you may shuffle,
and if it is your fourth Safe you must give one away). Horse cards are
replenished after use. There is no limit to the number of players using
a Horse to enter a fight, but after the attacker and defender have
rolled it is too late to join. Horse cards of either color can also
still be used as regular Horses when used on a player's turn. The Horse
Thief rule does not apply in 2-3 player games, and you can not use cards
as Horse Thieves during the Badge Round for any game.

== 2-3 PLAYER RULE ADJUSTMENTS ==
(view after reading normal rules)

Set up 2-3 player games as normal, noting the special instructions in
step one of Set Up. Play the game as normal, but with the following
adjustments:

1. Go around the circle twice before each Heist, and after the final
   Heist. This means that players will have a total of 8 turns during
   the game.
2. Stetsons allow players to view only one Safe instead of the usual
   two.
3. Holsters can not be played out of turn. Instead, for your turn you
   may attach a Holster to any Safe (including your own or another
   player's). The next time that Safe is attacked it will be defended
   with a gun played by the defender plus the gun on the Holster. The
   attached Holster is then discarded. Only one Holster can be on a Safe
   at a time, and Safes with Holsters on them cannot be shuffled. If a
   Safe with a Holster is given away, it retains its Holster. You can
   also attach a Holster to any player's character card (including your
   own). The next time that player is Dueled against, they will defend
   with a gun from their hand plus the gun on the Holster.

ADDITIONAL 2-PLAYER ADJUSTMENTS: THE STRANGER

Before beginning play, roll a black die. The highest roller places a
star, representing "the Stranger", into their establishment and places
its matching character card on the table. Give the Stranger two face
down Safes from the box. The Stranger does not have turns, but their
Safes can be viewed with Stetsons or attacked in Robberies. You can also
Duel against the Stranger to swap positions with them or to kick them
out of your establishment. If you attack the Stranger's Safes or Duel
the Stranger, your opponent will act as the Stranger and play cards from
their own hand in defense. Your opponent must play cards for the
Stranger, even if they don't know the contents of a Safe being attacked.
You may attach Holsters to the Stranger's Safes or character card as
described in the 2-3 player rule adjustments. Attached Holsters will be
used by the player acting as the Stranger to defend against applicable
Robberies or Duels.

During the Badge Round, Badges or starred Safes (Explosives, Dagger,
Poker Deck) owned by the Stranger are not revealed and have no effect.
The 3rd Law of Deadwood treats the Stranger as a player, so before the
Badge Round they will have three Safes.

THE FINAL SHOWDOWN FOR 2 PLAYER GAMES:

If you go to the Final Showdown alone, YOU WIN. If you go to the Final
Showdown with your opponent, follow normal rules and FIGHT YOUR OPPONENT
TO THE DEATH. If you go to the Final Showdown with the Stranger, your
opponent becomes the Stranger. Your opponent will use guns from their
own hand plus any Showdown Guns owned by the Stranger. Showdown Guns
owned by your opponent are not used. If your opponent acting as the
Stranger defeats you in the Final Showdown, YOUR OPPONENT WINS! If the
Stranger goes to the Final Showdown alone, YOU AND YOUR OPPONENT BOTH
LOSE and are banned from playing Deadwood 1876 for seven days.

== DEADWOOD HISTORY & BIOS ==

DEADWOOD HISTORY: Large deposits of gold were discovered in the Black
Hills of South Dakota in late 1875. Word quickly spread and the town of
Deadwood was born almost overnight in early 1876, settled illegally on
Native American land. It soon reached a population of 5,000 miners,
gamblers, prostitutes, outlaws, and businessmen. Lawlessness was
prevalent as people flocked to the town to find (or steal) their share
of the gold. Deadwood quickly became an infamous western town where old
west legends lived and died. The gold found in the area accounted for
10% of the world's gold for the next 125 years.

CHARACTER BIOS (flavor text; character cards used as player identity
markers, no mechanical differences noted in the rulebook):
- Al Swearengen - Entrepreneur, 31
- Calamity Jane - Cowgirl, 24
- Kitty Leroy - Trick Shooter, 26
- Mollie Johnson - Hustler, 24
- Poker Alice - Gambler, 25
- Reverend H.W. Smith - Reverend, 49
- Seth Bullock - Sheriff, 27
- Solomon Star - Mayor, 36
- Wild Bill Hickok - Frontiersman, 39

== PACKING & SLEEVING INSTRUCTIONS ==

If you are interested in placing sleeves on your cards, everything will
still fit if you remove the tuck box and sleeve all cards with 56x87mm
standard USA Game Size Sleeves from Mayday Games. If using thicker
premium sleeves, we recommend that you sleeve only the 25 Safe cards so
that everything will fit. Place all wood pieces in the linen bag in the
top slot of the book, place the wood disks in the middle, and place
cards on the bottom section. Place extra cards on top of the wood disks
in the middle section. Place the rulebook on top of everything.

== CREDITS ==

Rules & Gameplay: Travis Hancock
Illustrations: Sarah Keele
Graphic Design: Holly Hancock

Deadwood 1876 is part of THE DARK CITIES SERIES (Facade Games). Each
game in the series comes packaged in a magnetic book box, focuses on a
particular city and year from history, and includes a dark, secretive,
or mysterious element in its gameplay. Other volumes: Tortuga 1667,
Salem 1692.
