RULEBOOK

#1
GAME 
CONTENTS
#1 GAME COMPONENTS . .2
#2 SURVIVE AND WIN . . . 3
#3 SETUP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
#4 GAME OVERVIEW . . . . . 4
#5 THE BASICS . . . . . . . . . 5
#6 PLAYERS’ PHASE . . . . 10
#7 ZOMBIES’ PHASE . . . . 12
#8 COMBAT . . . . . . . . . . . 15
#9 SKILLS . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
#10 MISSIONS . . . . . . . . . 20
# 11 INDEX . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
6 DICE
40 WALKERS
71 MINIATURES
6 SURVIVORS
16 RUNNERS
8 FATTIES
1 ABOMINATION
 4 CAR TOKENS
POLICE CAR & PIMPMOBILE
6 ZOMBIE SPAWN TOKENS
 1 EXIT POINT TOKEN
9 GAME TILES (DOUBLE SIDED)

Ä
#2 
SURVIVE 
AND WIN
Zombicide is a cooperative game where players face hordes 
of Zombies controlled by the game itself. Each player con-
trols one, two, three, or four Survivors of a Zombie infection. 
The goal is simply to complete the Mission objectives and 
live to see another day.
The good news: Zombies are slow, stupid, and predictable. 
The bad news: there are a lot of Zombies!
Survivors use whatever they can get their hands on to kill 
Zombies. If they find bigger weapons, they can kill even 
more Zombies!
You can trade equipment, give and receive (or ignore) advice, 
and even sacrifice yourself to save the girl! Only through co-
operation, however, can you achieve the Mission objectives 
and survive. Killing Zombies is fun, but you will also need to 
rescue other Survivors, clean out infested areas, find food and 
weapons, take a ride through a ghost town, and much more.
After experiencing Zombicide, your gaming group will be the 
ultimate zombie killing team in town!
 6 SURVIVOR IDENTITY CARDS

110 MINI-CARDS
42 ZOMBIE CARDS, 
62 EQUIPMENT CARDS, 
6 WOUNDED CARDS
12 DOOR 
18 NOISE 
24 SKILL 
COUNTERS
1 FIRST PLAYER 
TOKEN
10 OBJECTIVE 
6 EXPERIENCE 
TRACKERS

#3 
 
SETUP
	
1  	Choose a Mission.
	
2  	Place the tiles.
	
3  	Place the doors, the cars, and Objectives.
	
4  	Put aside the pimpmobile cards (Evil Twins 
and Ma’s Shotgun), Molotov, Pan, and Wound-
ed cards. Also keep a single Fire Axe, Crowbar, 
and Pistol card.
	
5  	Shuffle the Zombie cards into one deck and 
the Equipment cards into another, then place 
them face down close to the board.
	
6  	Each player chooses his Survivors based on 
the number of players:
	
	
1 player: 4 Survivors.
	
	
2 players: 3 Survivors per player.
	
	
3 players: 2 Survivors per player.
	
	
4 to 6 players: 1 Survivor per player.
	
7  	Place the miniatures representing the chosen 
Survivors on the starting area as indicated by 
the Mission.
	
8  	On each Survivor’s Identity Card, place an 
experience tracker on the first square in the 
blue area of the Danger Bar, and place a Skill 
counter on the first corresponding Skill.
	
9 	 Randomly deal the starting equipment: a Fire 
Axe, Crowbar, Pistol, and enough Pans so that 
each Survivor gets one card. If a Survivor’s 
starting Skill lists any starting weapons, he 
receives those cards now, independent of the 
starting Equipment that’s just been distributed.
	
	
EXAMPLE: Phil is dealt one of the random 
starting Equipment cards and gets the 
pistol! He then takes the weapon listed 
on his Identity Card from the Equipment 
deck: another pistol!
	
10  Decide who will be the first player, and give him 
or her the “first player” token. Zombicide is a 
cooperative game, so do not pick randomly!
#4 
GAME 
OVERVIEW
Zombicide is played over a series of game turns, which go 
as follows:
PLAYERS’ PHASE
The player with the “first player” token takes his turn, activat-
ing his Survivors one at a time, in the order of his choice. 
Each Survivor can initially perform three Actions per turn, 
though Skills may allow him to perform extra Actions as 
the game progresses. The Survivor uses his Actions to kill 
Zombies, move around the map, and perform other tasks to 
accomplish the various Mission objectives.
Once a player has activated all his Survivors, the player to his 
left takes his turn, activating his Survivors in the same manner.
 When all the players have completed their turns, the Players’ 
Phase ends.
ZOMBIES’ PHASE
All of the Zombies on the board activate and spend one Ac-
tion either attacking a Survivor next to them or, if they have 
nobody to attack, moving toward the Survivors they see or, 
if they don’t see any, toward the noisiest Zone. Runners get 
two Actions, so they can attack twice, attack and move, 
move and attack, or move twice.
Once all Zombies have performed their Actions, new Zom-
bies appear in all of the active Spawn Zones on the board.
END PHASE
All Noise tokens are removed from the board, and the first 
player hands the “first player” token to the player on his left. 
Another game turn then begins.
WINNING AND LOSING
The game is lost when all Survivors have been gruesomely 
killed and eliminated from the game.
The game is won immediately when all of the Mission objec-
tives have been accomplished. Zombicide is a cooperative 
game, so all players win if the Mission objectives are fulfilled, 
even if all of a player’s Survivors have selflessly given their 
lives in heroic sacrifice. (A stupid death or willful suicide, on 
the other hand, can hardly be considered all that victorious…)
The Players’ Phase and Zombies’ Phase are explained in 
depth in Chapters #6 and #7.

#5 
 
THE BASICS
LINE OF SIGHT
How do I know if a Zombie sees me or if I see it?
On the streets, Actors see in straight lines that run paral-
lel to the edges of the board. Actors cannot see diagonally. 
Their line of sight covers as many Zones as the line can pass 
through before reaching a wall or the edge of the board.
Inside a building, an Actor sees into all Zones that share an 
opening with the Zone the Actor currently occupies. If there 
is an opening, the walls do not block line of sight between 
two Zones. An Actor’s line of sight, however, is limited to the 
distance of one Zone. 
NOTE: If the Survivor is looking out into the street, or 
from the street into a building, the line of sight can go 
through any number of street Zones in a straight line, 
but only one Zone inside the building.
USEFUL DEFINITIONS
ACTOR
A Survivor or Zombie.
ZONE
Inside a building, a Zone is a room.
On the street, a Zone is the area between two pe-
destrian crossings and the walls of buildings along 
the street. A single Zone may extend over two tiles 
or even four tiles.
This is a Zone 
on a street, 
straddling 
two tiles.
This is 
a Zone in 
a building.
Wanda cannot see 
this Zone since 
she can only see 
in a straight line.
Josh cannot 
see this Zone 
since he can 
only see in a 
straight line.
Josh cannot 
see this 
Zone since 
the door is 
closed.
Josh sees this 
Zone through 
the open door. 
Since it's in a 
building, lines 
of sight are 
limited to one 
Zone and only 
if the Survivors 
can see through 
an opening.

MOVEMENT
Actors can move from one Zone to the next, as long as the 
first Zone shares at least one edge with the destination 
Zone. Corners do not count; this means Actors cannot make 
diagonal movements.
On streets, the movement from one Zone to another has 
no restrictions. However, Actors must go through a door to 
move from a building to the street and vice versa.
Inside a building, Actors may move from one Zone to an-
other as long as these Zones are linked by an opening. The 
position of the miniature in the Zone and the layout of the 
walls do not matter, as long as the Zones share an opening.
NOISE
Firing a gun or smashing through a door makes noise, and 
noise attracts Zombies. Each Action that opens a door with 
a noisy weapon or attacks with a noisy weapon (see the 
“Noisy Weapons” callout) produces a Noise token. Place this 
token in the Zone where the Survivor resolved the Action. A 
single Action can only produce a single Noise token, no mat-
ter how many dice are rolled, how many hits are obtained, 
or if Dual weapons are used. Each Survivor miniature also 
counts as a Noise token. Yes, they just can’t seem to stay 
quiet! Noise tokens are always removed from the board after 
the Zombies’ Phase.
In Zombicide 
you cannot move 
diagonally !
In order to leave 
this building this 
Survivor must 
first move here…
…then here. And 
of course, step 
through the door.
Á

EXAMPLE: Ned opens a door with a Fire Axe. It’s a 
noisy way to open a door. This produces a Noise to-
ken. He then attacks a Zombie in his Zone, knocking 
it down after a couple of whacks. The Fire Axe is a si-
lent killing weapon, so this action produces no noise. 
There remain two “noises” in this Zone, however: 
the token produced by opening the door and Ned’s 
miniature itself.
In another Zone, Amy executes three Ranged Combat 
Actions with her two Dual Sub MGs. Although she 
rolled six dice, she gets only three Noise tokens in 
her Zone, one for each Ranged Action. The tokens 
remain on the square where she produced them; they 
don’t follow Amy when she moves.
 NOISY WEAPONS
Many Equipment cards, such as the Fire Axe, Crow-
bar, or Chainsaw, allow you to open doors as well as 
eliminate Zombies.”
 
 	Equipment that allows you 
to open doors has this symbol. 
 
	Equipment that allows you 
to kill Zombies has this symbol.
The association of these symbols with one of the 
following symbols determines whether the equip-
ment produces a Noise token when you use it to 
open a door or eliminate a Zombie:
 
 	Equipment that has this symbol 
produces a Noise token.
 
 	 Equipment which has this symbol is silent 
and does not produce a Noise token.
EXAMPLE 1: 
The Fire Axe can 
open doors and 
kill Zombies. It 
produces a Noise 
token when used 
to open a door. 
When you use it 
as Melee weapon 
to put down a 
Zombie, it does 
not produce a 
Noise token.
EXAMPLE 2: 
The Chainsaw 
can also open 
doors and kill 
Zombies. It 
produces a Noise 
token when used 
to open a door 
AND when you 
use it as Melee 
weapon to make 
Zombie slices!
Á

Place the unused 
Equipment here.
Place the readied 
Equipment here.
The experience 
tracker is 
placed here at 
the beginning.
Survivor kills 
his first Zombie, 
the tracker 
moves here.
Survivor kills 
a second 
Zombie, 
the tracker 
moves here.
Third Zombie 
and so on.
When the Survivor kills 
the 7th Zombie, you’re in 
the Yellow Danger Level!
12 more Zombies to reach 
the Orange level...
The starting Skill 
of the Survivor.
the Yellow 
Danger Level, 
he receives the 
Extra Skill that’s 
shown here.
When the Survivor 
reaches the 
Orange Danger 
Level, pick an 
extra Skill from 
the 2 Skills of 
this level.
the Red Danger 
Level, pick an 
extra Skill from 
the 3 Skills of 
this level.

EXPERIENCE, DANGER LEVEL, AND SKILLS
For each Zombie killed, a Survivor gains an experience point 
and moves up a notch on his Danger Bar. Some Mission 
objectives provide more experience, as does eliminating the 
There are four Danger Levels: Blue, Yellow, Orange, and Red. 
These represent everything from a light drizzle of Zombies 
to a flash flood. (You really don’t want to see what happens 
at the Red level...)
On each Danger Level, the Survivor gains one new Skill to 
help him on his mission (see Skills, page 18). Skills add to 
each other across Danger Levels: at the Red Level, your 
Survivor will have four Skills.
When a Survivor reaches 7 experience points, his Danger 
Level moves to Yellow, and he obtains a fourth Action. He may 
use this Action immediately and then every turn thereafter; in 
other words, he now has a permanent additional Action.
When a Survivor gets 19 experience points, the Orange Dan-
ger Level becomes active, and he can choose one of the two 
Skills indicated on his Identity Card.
At 43 experience points, the Survivor reaches the Red 
­Danger Level and obtains one Skill from among the three 
available at this Level.
This experience has a side effect, however. When you draw 
a Zombie card to spawn a Zone, read the line that corre-
sponds to the Survivor with the highest Danger Level!
INVENTORY
Each Survivor can carry up to five pieces of Equipment but 
can only have two equipped and ready to use (one in each 
hand) at any given time. While all weapons must be in a hand 
slot in order to use them (whether to attack or to open a 
door), other items, such as the Goalie Mask, Flashlight and 
Plenty of Ammo cards, are always in effect, even while in the 
reserve slots.
If your Survivor has more than five Equipment cards, discard 
cards until he has five.
You may discard cards from your inventory to make room for 
new cards at any time, for free.
THE ZOMBIES
There are four types of Zombies:
	
Walker. It stinks, it’s nasty, and it’s slow. Eliminating 
a Walker provides 1 experience point.
	
Fatty. Big, bloated, and tough, these Zombies are 
hard to put down. Weapons dealing only 1 Damage 
can’t hurt them...at all. You need a 2 Damage weapon 
to kill them. Each Fatty spawns with two Walkers 
alongside him, except when its group is splitting (see 
Zombies’ Phase, page 12). Killing a Fatty provides 1 
experience point.
	
Abomination. Mutated beyond recognition, the 
Abomination is the Survivors’ worst nightmare. Only 
weapons dealing 3 Damage or more can kill this 
monster. A well-aimed Molotov will do the trick, as it 
kills everything in its target Zone. Luckily, there’s only 
one Abomination on the board at any given time. If a 
second Abomination is drawn, replace it with a Fatty 
and its two Walkers. The Abomination spawns alone 
(possibly having eaten its Walker fellows). Killing an 
Abomination provides 5 experience points.
	
Runner. Amped up for some reason, these guys move 
twice as fast as Walkers. Each Runner has two Actions 
per activation, while all other Zombies only have one. 
Eliminating a Runner provides 1 experience point.
LET’S SEE SOME ID!
The Survivor Identity Cards in this box have infor-
mation on the front and the back. The front shows 
one of the six Survivors in the box. The back shows 
a blank ID Card. Use these to create your own Survi-
vors or download new ones from Guillotine Games!
HTTP://WWW.GUILLOTINEGAMES.COM/
_

#6 
PLAYERS’ 
Starting with whoever holds the “first player” token, each 
player activates his Survivors one after the other, in the order 
of his choice. Each Survivor can execute three Actions at 
the Blue Danger Level. This is increased to four when the 
Survivor reaches the Yellow Danger Level.
Some Survivors have a free Action at the Blue Danger Level. 
Any free Actions do not count toward this total.
EXAMPLE: On her turn, Amy uses her free Move Ac-
tion. She still has her basic three Actions of the turn 
remaining.
The possible Actions are:
MOVE
The Survivor moves from one Zone to the next but cannot 
move through external building walls or closed doors. If 
there are Zombies in the Zone the Survivor is attempting to 
leave, he must spend one extra Action per Zombie to leave 
the Zone. Entering a Zone containing Zombies terminates 
the Survivor’s Move Action, even if he has a Skill that allows 
him to move through multiple Zones per Move Action.
EXAMPLE 1: Ned is in a Zone with two Walkers. To 
leave this Zone, he spends one Move Action, then 
two more Actions (one per Walker), for a total of three 
Actions. If there had been three Zombies in the Zone, 
Ned would have needed four Actions to move!
EXAMPLE 2: Wanda is next to a Zone containing a 
Zombie when she moves. Her Move Action ends in 
the Zone with the Zombie, even if her 2 Zones per 
Move Skill would normally allow her to move up to 
two Zones.
SEARCH
You can only Search Zones inside a building and only if there 
are no Zombies in the Zone. The player draws a card from 
the Equipment deck. He may then place it in the Survivor’s 
inventory or immediately discard it. A Survivor can only per-
form a single Search Action per turn, even if it’s an extra, free 
Action. After searching, the Survivor may freely reorganize 
his inventory. (But the Survivor cannot trade with other Sur-
vivors; that is another Action!)
You may discard cards from your inventory to make room for 
new cards at any time, for free.
If the Equipment deck runs out, reshuffle all the discarded 
cards, with the exception of Wounded cards, Pans, Molotov, 
and pimpmobile cards (Ma’s shotgun and the Evil Twins), to 
make a new deck.
Special case: Cars. You can Search a car as long as the 
Survivor is in the same Zone and no Zombies are in the Zone.
• You can Search a pimpmobile only once per game. It con-
tains either Ma’s Shotgun or the Evil Twins (draw randomly). 
Some Missions may contain many pimpmobiles. In this 
case, only the weapons that have not yet been taken can 
be inside them. When there are no more...there are no more.
• You can Search police cars more than once per game. 
Draw cards until you find a weapon. Discard the other cards. 
The Aaahh! card triggers the appearance of a Walker as 
usual and interrupts the Search.
OPEN A DOOR
Doors are usually locked. In this case, the Survivor cannot 
open the door unless he has a Melee weapon with an “Open 
a door” symbol in his hand. 
Remember to place a Noise token in the Zone if the Survivor 
uses a noisy weapon (see Noisy Weapons, page 7).
Opening a building for the first time reveals all the Zombies 
inside all rooms of the building (a single building extends 
to all rooms connected by openings, sometimes straddling 
several tiles). Indicate each Zone of the building, one after 
the other in any order you choose, and draw a Zombie card 
for each Zone. Place the corresponding number and type 
of Zombies on the indicated Zone (see Zombies’ Phase - 
Spawn, page 13). If you draw an Extra Activation or Manhole 
card, immediately perform the action indicated on the card, 
and do not add Zombies to the current Zone.
OPEN A DOOR
SYMBOL

Some game effects, like the Lock it down Skill, allow an open 
door to be locked back. If it is opened again afterwards, it 
won’t trigger a new Zombie Spawn.
REORGANIZE YOUR INVENTORY 
AND TRADE WITH ANOTHER SURVIVOR
At the cost of one Action, a Survivor can reorganize the 
cards in his inventory in any way he wishes. The Survivor 
can simultaneously exchange any number of cards with only 
one other Survivor currently in the same Zone. This other 
Survivor may reorganize his own inventory for free.
RANGED COMBAT
The Survivor uses a Ranged weapon he is holding in his 
hands to shoot at a single Zone within the range shown on 
the weapon’s card (see Combat, page 15).
MELEE COMBAT
The Survivor uses a Melee weapon he is holding in his hands 
to attack the Zombies in his Zone (See Combat, page 15).
GET IN OR OUT OF A CAR
The Survivor gets in or out of a car in his Zone. To get in a car, 
the Zone must have no Zombies and either the driver’s seat or 
one of the three passenger’s seats must be empty for the Sur-
vivor to occupy. There are no restrictions to getting out of a car.
CHANGE SEATS IN A CAR
The Survivor vacates the seat he’s currently occupying and 
takes a different empty seat in the same car. If there are no 
empty seats in the car, Survivors cannot change seats.
DRIVE A CAR
Cars can only be driven if the Mission allows it. The Sur-
vivor occupying the driver’s seat can move the car one or 
two street Zones per Action spent (cars cannot be driven 
into buildings). This Action is not a Move and is not sub-
ject to movement modifiers, such as a free Move Action or 
increased movement, nor is it affected by disadvantages 
related to Move Actions (cars can leave a Zone with Zombies 
in it without the need to spend extra Actions). A car attacks 
all Actors in the Zones through which it moves (see Combat 
- Car Attack, page 17).
TAKE OR ACTIVATE AN OBJECTIVE
The Survivor takes an Objective token or activates an object 
in the same Zone. The game effects are explained in the Mis-
sion’s description.
MAKE SOME NOISE!
The Survivor makes Noise in an attempt to attract Zombies. 
Place one Noise token in his Zone.
DO NOTHING
The Survivor does nothing and prematurely ends his turn. 
His remaining Actions are lost.
O

#7 
ZOMBIES’ 
Once the players have activated all their Survivors, the Zom-
bies play. Nobody takes their role; they do it themselves, 
performing the following steps in order:
STEP 1 - ACTIVATION
Each Zombie activates and spends its Action on either an 
Attack or a Move, depending on its situation. First resolve 
all the Attacks, then all the Moves, but each Zombie only 
performs one or the other with a single Action.
ATTACK
Each Zombie in the same Zone as a Survivor performs an 
Attack. A Zombie’s Attack is always successful and does not 
require any dice rolls. It snatches, if possible, an Equipment 
card the Survivor is carrying. The player who controls that 
Survivor chooses an Equipment and discards its card. The 
Survivor receives a Wounded card, which replaces the lost 
Equipment. When he reorganizes his Survivor’s inventory, 
the player may move this Wounded card just like an Equip-
ment card, but he cannot discard or trade it, and it reduces 
the amount of Equipment the Survivor can carry. A Survivor 
with two Wounded cards is eliminated and his Equipment 
discarded. If different Survivors are in the same Zone, the 
players share the Wounded cards in any way they prefer. 
Cooperation also means sharing the pain and suffering!
EXAMPLE: A Walker in a Zone with two Survivors 
inflicts one wound during its activation. The players 
choose which Survivor receives the Wounded card 
and loses Equipment. They can decide, for example, 
to give it to a Survivor who is holding no equipment. 
They can also decide to give it to a Survivor who’s 
already wounded and put him out of his misery!
Feeding frenzy! Zombies fight in groups. All Zombies acti-
vated in the same Zone as a Survivor join the Attack, even if 
there are so many that it would be overkill.
EXAMPLE: A group of seven Walkers is in the same 
Zone as two Survivors. The first four Walkers are 
enough to kill the hapless victims, but all seven 
spend their Action attacking. Chow time!
MOVE
The Zombies that have not attacked use their Action to move 
one Zone toward their target, according to the following 
parameters:
	
- If they can see a Survivor, they move toward him.
	
- If they can see Survivors in different Zones, they 
move toward the noisiest group, regardless of the 
distance (REMEMBER: Each Survivor counts as a 
Noise token).
	
- If they can’t see anybody, they move toward the 
Zone that contains the most Noise tokens.
	
- If they can’t see anybody and there are no open 
paths to the Survivors, they move toward the noisi-
est Zone as if all doors were open, though locked 
doors still stop them.
Zombies always take the shortest possible route to their tar-
get Zone. If there is more than one route of the same length, 
the Zombies split into groups of equal numbers to follow all 
possible routes. They also split up if different target Zones 
contain the same number of Noise tokens. If necessary, add 
Zombies so that all new groups resulting from a splitting 
group contain the same number of each Zombie type!
Splitting special cases:
	
- The Abomination never splits; the players decide 
which direction it goes.
	
- If there aren’t enough Zombies for a split, each Zom-
bie of the designated type immediately gains an extra 
activation (see Running out of miniatures, p. 14).
	
- Fatties don’t get extra Walker escort when splitting.
EXAMPLE: A group of four Walkers, one Fatty, and 
three Runners move toward a group of Survivors. The 
Zombies can take two routes of the same length, so 
they split into two groups. Two Walkers go one way, 
the other two take the other route. The Fatty joins 
one group of Walkers, and a second Fatty is added to 
the other group (this new Fatty does not come with 
extra Walkers)! The three Runners also split, two join-
ing the first group, and the other joining the second 
group. Another Runner is added to the latter group so 
that the groups remain identical. Things just got a lot 
harder for the Survivors…

RUNNERS
Runners are an exception in that they have two Actions per 
turn. After all Zombies (including the Runners) have gone 
through the Activation step and resolved their first Action, 
the Runners go through the Activation step again, using their 
second Action to Attack a Survivor in their Zone or Move if 
there is nobody to attack.
EXAMPLE 1: At the beginning of the Zombies’ Phase, 
a group of three Runners and a Fatty is one Zone 
away from a Survivor. For their first Action, since 
they have nobody they can Attack in their Zone, the 
Zombies Move into the Zone with the Survivor. The 
Runners then perform their second Action. Since 
they now occupy the same Zone as a Survivor, they 
Attack. Each of the Runners inflicts one Wound, kill-
ing the Survivor.
EXAMPLE 2: A Runner is in the same Zone as a Survi-
vor, and a Walker is in the adjacent Zone. The Runner 
Attacks the Survivor with its first Action, inflicting a 
Wound, and the Walker Moves into their Zone, since 
he sees the Survivor. Then the Runner performs its 
second Action. It attacks the Survivor again, killing 
him.
EXAMPLE 3: A Survivor stands in the same Zone 
as three Walkers, two Fatties, and two Runners. All 
the Zombies attack and inflict seven Wounds (two 
Wounds are enough to kill the Survivor; the five re-
maining Wounds are still applied but without further 
consequence). None of the Zombies Move, as they 
all Attacked. Then, the Runners resolve their second 
Action. They have no one to Attack, so they Move one 
Zone toward the noisiest Zone.
STEP 2 - SPAWN
The Mission maps show where Zombies appear at the end 
of each turn. These are the Spawn Zones. Point to a Spawn 
Zone, and draw a Zombie card. Read the line on the card 
that corresponds to the color of the Danger Level of the most 
experienced Survivor still in the game (Blue, Yellow, Orange, 
or Red). Place the number and type of Zombies shown. Re-
peat this for each Spawn Zone. Always begin with the same 
Spawn Zone and continue clockwise.
ATTENTION: Each Fatty has two Walkers as escorts 
when it spawns but not when you add one to balance 
a group of Zombies that splits.
When the Zombie deck runs out, reshuffle all the discarded 
cards to make a new deck.
EXAMPLE: Wanda has 5 experience points, placing 
her in the Blue Danger Level. Doug has 12, which 
puts him in the Yellow. In order to determine how 
many Zombies spawn each turn, read the Yellow line, 
which corresponds to Doug, the most experienced 
Survivor.
There are two special cases: the Extra Activation card and 
the Manhole card. In both cases, no Zombies appear in the 
designated Zone.
When you reveal an Extra Activation card, no Zombies ap-
pear in the designated Zone. Instead, all Zombies of the 
indicated type get another turn (see Activation step in the 
previous page). Notice that these cards have no effect at the 
Blue Danger Level!
If at least one Survivor 
has reached the 
Red Danger Level, 
read this one. 5 
Walkers! Brains…
If all Survivors are 
still in the Blue Danger 
Level, read this line. 
Phew… nothing.
If the most experienced 
Survivor is in the 
Yellow Danger Level, 2 
Runners appear when 
you draw this card.
At the Blue Danger 
Level, nothing happens.
At the Yellow, Orange, 
and Red Danger 
Levels, all Runners are 
immediately activated. 
They receive two 
Actions as normal for 
this activation.

When you draw a Manhole card, no 
Zombie appears on the designated Zone. 
Instead, place the indicated number and 
type of Zombies in every Zone where the 
map shows a manhole, on every tile where 
at least one Survivor stands. Manhole 
invasions never happen on tiles devoid of 
Survivors.
ATTENTION: The Danger Level used 
for spawning Zombies is set by the 
Survivor with the highest Danger 
Level still in the game. If this Survivor 
is eliminated, the Danger Level drops 
to that of the next most experienced 
Survivor.
The most 
experienced 
the Yellow 
Danger Level: 
place 2 Walkers 
per manhole.
appear in 
this Zone…
4 Walkers 
appear here: 
2 for each 
manhole!
appear in 
this Zone…
The Survivors are 
at this crossroads. 
They are on four 
different tiles!
Here no Zombie 
appears, since 
there is no 
Survivor on 
this tile.
2 Walkers also 
appear in this 
Zone, since 
a Survivor is 
appear in this 
Zone, since 
a Survivor is 
Here no Zombie 
appears through 
the manhole, since 
there is no Survivor 
The Survivors 
are in this 
street. They 
are on two 
different tiles!
The 
Zombicide 
box 
contains 
enough Zombies to invade a city. 
However, players may still run out 
of miniatures of the indicated type 
when required to place a Zombie 
on the board (when spawning, 
populating a building, or due to 
splitting). In this case, the remain-
ing Zombies are placed (if there 
are any), and then all Zombies of 
the requested type immediately 
gain an extra activation.
RUNNING OUT 
OF MINIATURES
:

#8 
 
COMBAT
When a Survivor executes a Combat Action, roll as many 
dice as the Dice number of the equipped weapon being 
used. If the active Survivor has two identical weapons with 
the Dual symbol equipped in hand, he can use both weap-
ons at the same time at the cost of a single Combat Action. 
Both weapons must be aimed at the same Zone.
EXAMPLES: Doug has two Sub MGs in his hands. 
The Sub MG has the Dual symbol, so Doug can shoot 
them both with a single Action. This allows him to 
roll six dice in a single roll, as the Sub MG has a Dice 
number of 3!
Wanda is holding two machetes. She can strike with 
them both at once, so she can roll two dice for every 
Action she uses to attack.
Each die result that equals or exceeds the Accuracy number 
of the weapon scores a successful hit. Each hit inflicts the 
amount of Damage specified by the Damage value of the 
weapon to a single target. Walkers and Runners are killed 
with a 1 Damage hit. However, a weapon that deals 2 Dam-
age or more is necessary to eliminate a Fatty, and only a 3 
Damage weapon (or a Molotov) will kill an Abomination. It 
does not matter how many hits you obtain with a weapon 
that inflicts 1 Damage, a Fatty or Abomination will absorb 
the hits without flinching.
EXAMPLE: Doug unloads his two Sub MGs on three 
Walkers who are guarding a Fatty and scores five hits. 
The first three shots easily blow away the Walkers. 
However, the Fatty takes the two remaining hits with 
no consequence, as the Sub MG inflicts only 1 Damage.
Wanda arrives to finish the job with her machete. She 
hits once, but the machete inflicts 2 Damage, which 
is enough to chop that Fatty down!
If there had been two Runners instead of a Fatty, a 
single hit with the machete would not have elimi-
nated the two Runners. Each successful hit can only 
take out one target, and remaining damage is overkill 
and wasted.
RANGE: 
Min and max 
number of Zones 
the weapon can 
reach. “0” is 
Melee only.
DICE: 
Roll as many 
dice as this 
value when 
an Action is 
spent to use 
this weapon.
ACCURACY: 
Each roll 
that equals 
or exceeds 
this value is 
a success. 
Inferior 
results are 
failures.
DAMAGE: 
Damage inflicted 
for each 
success. A “2” 
value is required 
to eliminate 
Fatties. A “3” 
value is required 
to eliminate the 
OPENS DOORS: 
Can be used to 
open doors.
SILENT: Doesn’t
produce 
a Noise token 
when used in 
Melee Combat.
SILENT: Doesn’t produce a Noise 
token when used to open doors.
DUAL: 
If you have a pistol in each hand, 
you may use them both in a single 
Action (aimed at the same Zone).
RANGE: 
Min and max 
number of 
Zones the 
weapon can 
reach. “0” is 
Melee only.
DICE: Roll 
as many 
dice as this 
value when 
an Action is 
spent to use 
this weapon.
ACCURACY: 
Each roll 
that equals 
or exceeds 
this value is 
a success. 
Inferior 
results are 
failures.
DAMAGE: 
Damage 
inflicted for 
each success. 
A “2” value 
is required 
to eliminate 
Fatties. A 
“3” value is 
required to 
eliminate the 
NOISY: 
Produces a 
Noise token 
when used. 
Dual weapons 
produce a 
single Noise 
token per 
Action.

MELEE
A Survivor equipped with a Melee weapon (a weapon with 
a max Range of “0”) can attack a Zombie in his own Zone. 
Each die roll equal to or higher than the Accuracy value on 
the weapon’s card is a successful hit. The player divides his 
hits as desired among the possible targets in the Zone.
EXAMPLE: Wanda attacks a Walker, a Runner, and a 
Fatty with her dual machetes. She rolls a  and , 
which means two hits. She decides to decapitate the 
Runner and to butcher the Fatty, leaving the Walker, 
the least dangerous of the three, for her next Action. 
Though Ned is also in the same Zone, he is safe from 
Wanda’s slashes.
RANGED
A Survivor equipped with a Ranged weapon (a weapon with 
a max Range of “1” or more) can shoot at targets in a Zone 
he can see (see Line of Sight, page 5) and that is within the 
weapon’s Range.
DYNAMIC SURVIVOR IDENTITY 
CARD OVERVIEW
18 EXPERIENCE POINTS 
Ned’s in the Yellow Danger Level. One more experience 
point and he’ll get to the Orange Danger Level. The player 
will then have to choose between two exciting new Skills.
EXTRA EQUIPMENT 
Ned was wounded earlier in the 
game. The Wounded card occupies 
an Equipment slot. Another 
Wound and Ned will be eliminated. 
Thankfully, he found a Goalie Mask 
to discard to prevent the next 
wound. Ned also has some Gasoline, 
which combined with Glass Bottles, 
can be used to build a Molotov. 
Come on, Abomination, let’s burn!
EQUIPPED WEAPONS 
Sniper Rifle and Fire Axe. By combining a Rifle and a Scope, 
Ned has a priceless Sniper Rifle to shoot Runners among 
crowds of Walkers. In the other hand, a 2 Damage Fire 
Axe allows Ned to break through doors and Fatties alike.
ç

REMEMBER: Inside a building, the Line of Sight is 
limited to the Zones that share an opening and just 
one Zone away.
The Range of a weapon is shown by the Range value on its 
card, which represents the number of Zones it can shoot 
across. The first of the two values shows the minimum 
Range. The weapon may not be shot at Zones closer than 
the minimum. In most cases this is 0, meaning the Survivor 
can shoot at targets in the Zone he currently occupies. The 
second value shows the maximum Range of the weapon. A 
weapon cannot fire at Zones beyond the maximum Range.
EXAMPLE: The rifle has a range of 1-3, which means it 
can shoot up to three Zones away but can’t be used in 
the same Zone as the Survivor pulling the trigger. The 
Sub MG has a Range of 0-1, which means it can shoot 
in its owner’s current Zone or at an adjacent Zone.
When a Zone is chosen for a Ranged Combat, ignore any Ac-
tors who are in the Zones between the shooter and the target. 
This means Survivors may shoot through occupied Zones 
without danger to either other Survivors or Zombies.
When using a Ranged weapon, the shooting Survivor does 
not choose the targets hit by successful rolls. Hits are as-
signed to Actors in the targeted Zone following this targeting 
priority order:
	
1 – Survivors (except for the shooter)
	
2 – Walkers
	
3 – Fatties or Abominations
	
4 – Runners
The hits are assigned to targets at the lowest priority until 
they’ve all been eliminated, then to targets at the next prior-
ity until they’ve all been eliminated, and so on.
EXAMPLE: In Doug’s Zone there is another Survivor, 
Ned, four Walkers, one Fatty, and two Runners. Know-
ing he’s Zombie chow, Doug is going to take as many of 
them with him as possible! He rolls six dice (three for 
each Sub MG). He obtains , , , ,  and . The 
Sub MG hits on  or , which means five hits. Ned 
takes two, which kills him (with friends like these...), 
and the remaining hits eliminate the Walkers.
Doug shoots again and gets , , , , , , three 
more hits. The last Walker is down but the two re-
maining shots do no harm to the Fatty, which shields 
the two Runners. The only way to target the Runners 
first would have been with a Melee weapon, which 
can freely assign hits, or with a Sniper Rifle.
NOTE: If a Survivor receives a hit from a 2 Damage 
weapon, he suffers two Wounds, killing him.
IMPROVED WEAPONRY: 
SNIPER RIFLE AND MOLOTOV
Specific Equipment cards can be combined to build im-
proved weaponry. Take the two appropriate cards, which 
must be already stored in the Survivor’s inventory, and 
combine them into the new weapon. This does not cost an 
Action, and the new weapon takes only a single slot in your 
Survivor’s inventory. When built, Survivors may immediately 
and freely equip improved weapons to their hands.
Sniper Rifle: Combine a Rifle and a Scope to get a sniper 
rifle. Put the Scope card under the Rifle card. Now you can 
choose your targets when firing with this Rifle.
Molotov: Discard a Glass Bottle and a Gasoline card and 
give your Survivor a Molotov card. The Molotov doesn’t need 
Dice, Accuracy, or Damage values (though it still requires a 
Ranged Combat Action to use). Just terminate everything in 
the targeted Zone. Yes, even other Survivors and the Abomi-
nation. Discard the Molotov card after a single use, leaving 
its hand slot empty.
CAR ATTACK
When the Survivor in the driver’s seat spends an Action to 
move a car, it runs over every Actor in the Zone it starts in 
and each Zone it enters. The player who controls the driver 
rolls one die for each miniature in the Zone the car leaves, 
every Zone it moves through, and the Zone it reaches (except 
for the Survivors inside the driven car). Each ,  or  is a 
successful hit that inflicts 1 Damage (only 1; it is impossible 
to run down a Fatty or Abomination). Assign these hits fol-
lowing the targeting priority order, just like a Ranged attack 
(see previous section): first Survivors (except for those in the 
attacking car), then Walkers, then Fatties and Abominations, 
and finally Runners. All targeted Survivors must be killed 
before hits can be assigned to any Walkers. The driver gains 
all the experience points from the killed Zombies.
RELOAD!
While most weapons can be used repeatedly, a few, 
like the Sawed-off, require spending an Action to re-
load them between shots if you want to fire multiple 
times in the same turn. At the End Phase of the turn, 
all such weapons are freely reloaded, so that they 
always start the turn ready to fire. If such a weapon 
is fired and passed to another Survivor without 
reloading, it must still be reloaded before the new 
owner can use it in the same turn. When equipped 
with two identical Dual weapons that require reload-
ing, a single Action reloads both.

Survivors may make Melee and Ranged attacks from the 
inside of a car, without altering the Combat rules in any way. 
Cars offer no protection to their occupants from normal 
Zombie attacks or Survivor attacks.
EXAMPLE: Phil is driving the police car with Amy in 
the passenger’s seat. The same Zone (Zone 1) con-
tains one Walker, three Runners, and an unharmed 
Josh, who could not get in the car because of the 
Zombies in the Zone. In the next Zone (Zone 2) there’s 
one Walker, one Fatty, and two Runners. In the Zone 
after that (Zone 3) lurk six Walkers. Phil spends one 
Action to move the car out of Zone 1, through Zone 2, 
and end up in Zone 3. 
For Zone 1 he rolls five dice, getting four hits. Josh 
takes two hits and dies. One Walker and one Runner 
are killed.
For Zone 2 he rolls four dice, getting three hits. The 
Walker is killed, but the Fatty absorbs the remaining 
hits.
For Zone 3 he rolls six dice, getting three hits. Three 
Walkers are killed.
Phil then spends another Action to move the car back 
and forth between Zones 2 and 3.
For Zone 3 he rolls three dice, getting two hits and 
killing two Walkers.
For Zone 2 he would roll three dice, but it’s pointless 
since the Fatty will absorb any hits, keeping the Run-
ners safe.
For Zone 3 he rolls another one die, getting one hit 
and clearing the Zone.
#9 
 
SKILLS
Each Survivor in Zombicide has specific Skills with effects 
described in this section. In case of conflict with the general 
rules, the Skill rules have priority.
Some of the following Skills are not attributed to the Survi-
vors in this box. They will be used by other Survivors in the 
future. Try them out with Survivors you create! 
The effects of the following Skills and/or bonuses are imme-
diate and may be used the turn in which they are acquired. 
This means that if one Action causes a Survivor to level up 
and gain a Skill, that Skill may be used immediately if the 
Survivor has any Actions remaining (or the Survivor may use 
any extra Actions the Skill may grant).
+1 Action – The Survivor has an extra Action he may use 
as he pleases.
+1 Damage: [Type] – The Survivor gets a +1 Damage 
bonus with the specified type of Action (Melee or Ranged).
+1 to dice roll: Combat – The Survivor adds 1 to the 
result of each die he rolls on a Combat Action (Melee or 
Ranged). The maximum result is always 6.
+1 to dice roll: Melee – The Survivor adds 1 to the result 
of each die he rolls in Melee Combat. The maximum result 
is always 6.
+1 to dice roll: Ranged – The Survivor adds 1 to the 
result of each die he rolls in Ranged Combat. The maximum 
result is always 6.
+1 die: Combat – The Survivor’s weapons roll an extra 
die in Combat (Melee or Ranged). Dual weapons gain a die 
each, for a total of +2 dice per Dual Combat Action.
+1 die: Melee – The Survivor’s Melee weapons rolls an 
extra die in Combat. Dual melee weapons gain a die each, 
for a total of +2 dice per Dual Melee Combat Action.
+1 die: Ranged – The Survivor’s Ranged weapons roll an 
extra die in Combat. Dual ranged weapons gain a die each, 
for a total of +2 dice per Dual Ranged Combat Action.
+1 free Combat Action – The Survivor has one free extra 
Combat Action. This Action may only be used for Melee or 
Ranged Combat.
+1 free Move Action – The Survivor has one free extra 
Move Action. This Action may only be used as a Move Action.
ï

+1 free Search Action – The Survivor has one free extra 
Search Action. This Action may only be used to Search and 
the Survivor can still only Search once per turn.
+1 max Range – The Survivor’s Ranged weapons’ maxi-
mum Range is increased by 1.
+1 Zone per Move – The Survivor can move through one 
extra Zone each time he performs a Move Action. This Skill 
stacks with other effects benefitting Move Actions.
1 re-roll per turn – Once per turn, you can re-roll all the 
dice related to the resolution of an Action made by the Survi-
vor. The new result takes the place of the previous one. This 
Skill stacks with the effects of Equipment that allow re-rolls.
2 cocktails are better than 1 – The Survivor gets two 
Molotov cards instead of one when he creates a Molotov.
2 Zones per Move Action – When the Survivor spends 
one Action to Move, he can move one or two Zones instead 
of one.
Ambidextrous – The Survivor treats all Melee and Ranged 
weapons as if they had the Dual symbol 
 
 
 
Born leader – During the Survivor’s turn, he may give one 
free Action to another Survivor, to use as he pleases. This Ac-
tion must be used during the recipient’s next turn or it is lost.
Destiny – The Survivor can use this Skill once per turn 
when he reveals an Equipment card he drew. Discard that 
card and draw another Equipment card.
Gunslinger – The Survivor treats all Ranged weapons as if 
they had the Dual symbol 
 
Hoard – The Survivor can carry one extra Equipment card 
in reserve.
Hold your nose – This Skill can be used once per turn. The 
Survivor gets a free Search Action in the Zone if he has elimi-
nated a Zombie (even outside a building) the very same turn. 
This Action may only be used to Search and the Survivor can 
still only Search once per turn.
Is that all you’ve got? – You can use this Skill any time 
the Survivor is about to get Wounded cards. Discard one 
Equipment card in your Survivor’s inventory for each Wound 
he’s about to receive. Negate a Wounded card per discarded 
Equipment card.
Lock it down – At the cost of one Action, the Survivor can 
close an open door. Opening it again later does not trigger a 
new Zombie Spawn.
Loud – Once per turn, the Survivor can make a huge amount 
of noise! Until this Survivor’s next turn, the Zone he used this 
Skill in is considered to have the highest number of Noise to-
kens on the entire map. If different Survivors have this Skill, 
only the last one who used it applies the effects.
Lucky – The Survivor can re-roll once all the dice of each 
Action he takes. The new result takes the place of the pre-
vious one. This Skill stacks with the effects of other Skills 
(“1 re-roll per turn”, for example) and Equipment that allows 
re-rolls. 
Matching Set! - When a Survivor performs a Search Ac-
tion and draws a weapon card with the Dual symbol 
 
 
 
, he can immediately take a second card of the same 
type from the Equipment deck. Shuffle the deck afterward.
Medic – Once per turn, the Survivor can freely remove one 
Wounded card from a Survivor in the same Zone. He may 
also heal himself.
Ninja – The Survivor makes no Noise. At all. His miniature 
does not count as a Noise token, and his use of Equipment 
or weapons produces no Noise tokens either! The Survivor 
may choose not to use this Skill at any time, if he wishes to 
be noisy.
Slippery – The Survivor does not spend extra Actions when 
he performs a Move Action through a Zone where there are 
Zombies.
Sniper – The Survivor may freely choose the targets of all 
his Ranged Combat Actions.
Starts with a [Equipment] – The Survivor begins the 
game with the indicated Equipment; its card is automatically 
assigned to him before the beginning of the game.
Swordmaster – The Survivor treats all Melee weapons as 
if they had the Dual symbol 
 
Tough – The Survivor ignores the first Attack he receives 
from a single Zombie every Zombies’ Phase.
Trick shot – When the Survivor is equipped with Dual 
Ranged weapons, he can aim at targets in different Zones 
with each weapon in the same Action.

#10  
 
MISSIONS
The following pages contain a Tutorial Mission to help get 
you acquainted with the game and ten Missions to thor-
oughly put your Zombicide survival to the test! You can play 
these Missions in sequence, or you can tackle whichever 
one suits you best at the time, given that they vary greatly in 
style, size, difficulty, and play time.
Special rules detailed in Missions supersede common rules 
and cards rules.
These Missions are just the beginning; the Zombie invasion 
has only started! Head over to www.guillotinegames.com 
and you’ll find a constantly updating roster of new Missions 
up for free download. Or get our map editor to create your 
very own Missions and share them with the Zombicide 
community!
 
TUTORIAL
TUTORIAL / 4+ SURVIVORS / 20 MINUTES
We were with some friends when the first siren 
began to wail, quickly followed by countless others. 
In less than an hour, everything changed. The 
television and the radio announced horrible news. 
We decided to take shelter at our neighbor’s house, 
which was much safer. We just had to cross the 
street.
But THEY were already there...
Tiles needed: 2B & 1B.
• Take the Objective token.
• Reduced Zombie deck. Use only the Zombie cards 
numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, and 41 to make the Zombie deck. Put 
the other ones in the box.
• Special starting equipment. Do not give the Pistol, 
Fire Axe, and Crowbar cards as starting equipment. Instead, 
put them at the top of the Equipment deck. They will be the 
first three cards drawn when Survivors search a Zone. Pan 
cards are dealt as usual.
Objective
1 Walker

À
CITY 
BLOCKS
HARD / 4+ SURVIVORS / 150 MINUTES
Our shelter is safe, for now. Unfortunately, our 
food supplies won’t last long. We’ve decided to arm 
ourselves and go explore the surrounding houses. 
We cannot come back empty-handed.
Tiles needed: 2C, 1C, 4B, 5C, 7B, 5D, 6B, 5E & 1B.
• Find at least one Canned Food card, at least one Rice 
card, and at least one Water card.
• Once you have achieved the previous objectives, reach the 
Exit Zone shown on the map with at least one Survivor. Gather 
the Equipment and Survivors that escaped. You win if you 
have at least one Canned Food, one Rice, and one Water card.
SURVIVORS
150 MINUTES
Objective (5 XP)
Exit Zone

 
Y-ZONE
MEDIUM / 4+ SURVIVORS / 60 MINUTES
The living are losing ground. The pockets of 
resistance fall one after another, and our CB radio, 
once bustling with messages, is now silent. We must 
leave. The zombies are growing in numbers, and our 
supplies are getting scarce.
I could kill for some toothpaste.
Tiles needed: 4B, 4E, 1B, 7B, 5D, 6B, 3C, 4C & 2C.
• Reach the Exit Zone shown on the map with all Survivors.
• The Objective token 
represents a medicine 
cabinet. 
The 
Survivor 
who takes it immediately 
loses a Wounded card.
Medicine cabinet
Exit Zone

 THE 24HRS RACE 
OF ZOMBICITY
MEDIUM / 4+ SURVIVORS / 90 MINUTES
There’s a large rest home in sight. The buildings do 
not look too damaged, and some cars look like they 
could still run. The supply room is probably full, since 
it looks like the looters didn’t linger here. We pretty 
quickly saw why: the area is swarming with zombies. 
The previous inhabitants couldn’t really put up a 
fight. Before exploring, we have to clean up.
I dream of bubblegum.
Tiles needed: 2C, 4D, 4B, 5C, 6B, 5F, 1B, 3C & 4E.
• Reach the Red Danger Level with at least one Survivor.
• You can Search a police car more than once. Draw cards 
rupts the Search.

DRIVE-BY 
SHOOTING
MEDIUM / 4+ SURVIVORS / 90 MINUTES
Our new shelter is not enough protection. The 
zombies just keep coming. We can’t sleep, and some 
of us are beginning to lose our grip. There must be 
a nest around here, probably in the business area 
near the subway entrance. Until this threat is 
neutralized, we’ll be continuously attacked.
I could use a new pair of shoes in my size.
Tiles needed: 3C, 4D, 2C, 5F, 4E, 4B, 2B & 5C.
• After fulfilling the objective above, all remaining Survivors 
must reach the same Zombie Spawn Zone and make sure 
there are no Zombies left in it.
rupts the Search.
• You can search a po-
lice car more than once. 
Draw cards until you 
find a weapon. Discard 
the other cards. The 
Aaahh! cards trigger 
the appearance of a 
Zombie as usual and 
interrupt the search.
Objective (5 XP)
á

a
 
BIG W
HARD / 6+ SURVIVORS / 180 MINUTES
Zombies are dangerous, but they may not be the 
greatest threat. We always have to find new 
resources, food, weapons, ammo, and above all safe 
shelter. Here we are in the city center, a cemetery 
of concrete and glass. The big office buildings are 
definitely infested. Hopefully, though, we can find 
the means to survive a few more days. Remember, 
we must not open more than one door at a time and 
must not make too much noise. Otherwise, all the 
zombies in the city will be on us in minutes!
I dreamed of bacon yesterday. Just bacon.
Tiles needed: 5D, 2C, 1C, 7B, 5C, 6B, 5E, 1B & 4B.
• Each Objective token 
gives 5 experience points 
to the Survivor who takes it.

THE 
ESCAPE
HARD / 6+ SURVIVORS / 150 MINUTES
In the first hours of the infection, everybody 
mobbed the supermarkets to get food. Big mistake. 
Public places were swarming with zombies. We’ve 
stumbled on a Z-Mart in the suburbs. Till now, 
everybody who entered just increased the number 
of infected. Today is our turn to brave the crowd. 
We’ve finished the last of our supplies. We have no 
choice...but we have experience and team work.
I need a bigger gun... and toilet paper.
Tiles needed: 4C, 2C, 7B, 3C, 1B & 5D.
Accomplish the following tasks in this order:
1– Place up to six supply cards under the car tokens (see the 
special rules). The supply cards can be Canned Food, Rice, 
or Water cards.
2– Get into as many cars as needed with the remaining 
Survivors.
3– Reach the Exit Zone with the Survivors in the cars. A car 
that reaches this Zone leaves the board with its occupants and 
the supplies it contains. Put aside the supply cards that made 
it off the board with the cars. You win if there are six or more.
• You cannot Search the Survivors’ Starting Zone.
• Placing supplies in a car: At the cost of one Action, a Sur-
vivor can place (or take) one Canned Food, Rice, or Water 
card under a car token in the Zone he currently occupies.
• You can use the cars.
rupts the search.
Exit
starting area
No search 
in this Zone
Smashed door

 
GRINDHOUSE
EASY / 6+ SURVIVORS / 45 MINUTES
While everything was collapsing, there was an 
accident at the nuclear power plant. Before 
disappearing, the authorities placed a large number 
of the power plant technicians in a wing of the 
hospital under quarantine. We must make sure 
these people are sealed in there forever, especially 
if they are infected. Why? Because there’s one 
thing worse than a zombie: a radioactive zombie.
I wonder where all the dogs went.
Tiles needed: 3C, 2C, 2B & 4C.
• Neutralize the Zombie Spawn Zones (see special rules).
• Dual door opening: Opening a door opens the other door 
of the same building as well.
• Zombie occupation: Each building Zone contains a single 
Walker at game start. Resolve a Zombie Spawn as usual 
when opening doors.
• Zombie Exit: Two Zones shown on the plan contain seven 
permanent Noise counters. These Zones represent the 
exits through which the Zombies might escape. If a Zombie 
reaches one of these Zones, remove it from the board and 
place it aside. If four Zombies leave the board in this way, 
the game is immediately lost.
• Neutralizing the Zombie Spawn Zones: A Survivor can 
neutralize a Spawn Zone in Zone he currently occupies for 
the cost of one Action. The Zone must contain no Zombies. 
Please note the Zombie Spawn Zones are active even if 
doors are locked.
Objectives (5 XP)
Permanent Noise token
Single Walker token

ZOMBIE 
POLICE
HARD / 6+ SURVIVORS / 180 MINUTES
We killed a zombie that had been the mayor of 
this town. It was carrying a fax from the chief 
of police explaining how to reach a safe hideout, 
an old, underground facility that had been turned 
into a bunker, close to the police station. Apparently 
it contains an armory, food supplies, and even a 
shower. This bunker would be the perfect shelter 
for us. Its entrance, however, is controlled from a 
distance, and the district is swarming with zombies. 
This is a dangerous mission but well worth it.
What doesn’t kill you today just might tomorrow.
Tiles needed: 2C, 7B, 4B, 1B, 5C & 3C.
• Place at least one Survivor in the “bunker” Zone shown on the 
map. The bunker must be cleansed of all occupying Zombies.
• The blue door cannot be opened until the blue Objective 
has been taken.
• The blue Spawn Zone will be activated when the blue Ob-
jective has been taken.
• The green door cannot be opened until the green Objective 
has been taken.
rupts the search.
BUNKER
Blue door
5 XP. Blue 
objective
5 XP. Not an 
objective.
Green door
5 XP. Green 
objective
Zombie Blue
Player starting 
area

MIGHT 
MAKES RIGHT
MEDIUM / SPECIAL / 90 MINUTES
We’ve found a shelter, and we have enough supplies 
to feed a small army. There’s also a radio that’s still 
working. Thanks to this, we’ve found another group 
of survivors in the suburbs. They are defenseless and 
surrounded by zombies. There’s no reason for this 
to be a trap. United we stand. Let’s make some new 
friends.
Found dental floss today, it felt like Xmas.
Tiles needed: 1B, 2B, 2C & 7B.
NOTE: Might Makes Right was designed for one to 
three players.
• Return to the starting Zone with at least four Survivors (one 
player), five Survivors (two players) or six Survivors (three 
players). A Survivor placed on the starting area can leave 
the board during his turn. Put him aside with his Equipment 
cards. You achieve victory as soon as the required number 
of Survivors is put aside.
• Each player begins the game with a single Survivor.
• Four Objectives are visible on the map. Three of 
them are “neutral” with identical sides. The fourth is 
marked with a standard side and a blue side. Place 
the counters face down and randomly so no one 
knows where the marked counter is.
• Each Objective token gives 5 experience points to 
the Survivor who takes it. Each time a neutral Objec-
tive token is taken, the player who controls the fewest 
Survivors randomly picks a new Survivor (in case of a 
tie, the player who took the token decides). The new 
Survivor is revealed and placed without Equipment 
on the Zone where the Objective token was taken. He 
may now be played as normal. Revealing the marked 
objective token doesn’t grant an additional Survivor 
but still grants 5 experience points.
• You cannot use the cars.
• You can search a police car more than once. Pick 
cards until you find a weapon. Discard the cards 
which are not weapons. The Aaahh! card triggers the 
appearance of a Walker as usual and interrupts the 
search.
Locked 
door
starting 
area
Police car

SMALL 
TOWN
HARD / 4+ SURVIVORS / 120 MINUTES
Back to basics. We’re exploring the 
surrounding area in wider and wider 
concentric circles around our hideout. 
Several weeks have passed since the 
infection 
began, 
and 
the 
zombie 
population has peaked. What may seem 
like a routine mission is actually an 
ordeal where the smallest mistake could 
be fatal.
Glad I quit smoking or all this running 
around would kill me.
Tiles needed: 7B, 2B, 5B & 5C.
starting area
÷

ZOMBICIDE - INDEX & CREDITS
CREDITS
GAME DESIGNERS: 
Raphaël GUITON, Jean-Baptiste LULLIEN 
and Nicolas RAOULT
EXECUTIVE PRODUCER: 
Percy DE MONTBLANC
ART: 
Miguel COIMBRA, Nicolas FRUCTUS, 
Edouard GUITON, Mathieu HARLAUT 
and Eric NOUHAUT 
GRAPHIC DESIGN:
Mathieu HARLAUT
SCULPTORS:
Elfried PEROCHON and Rafal ZELAZO
PHOTOGRAPHY: 
Mathieu HARLAUT
EDITING: 
Chern ANN NG, Christopher BODAN and 
Thiago ARANHA
PUBLISHER: 
David PRETI
PLAYTEST: 
Thiago ARANHA, Arnaud BEAUDOUIN, 
Walid BENHAFSIA, Philippe CHARTIER, 
Sébastien CELERIN, Aristophanis 
GALANOPOULOS, Odin GUITON, 
Mathieu HARLAUT, Erwan HASCOET, 
Loïc HASCOET, Frédéric HENRY, 
Sébastien LABRO, Gabriel LOUET, 
Barbara LOUET, Nolwenn LOUET, Galaan 
LOUET, Guillaume MONVOISIN, Julien 
MONVOISIN, Eric NOUHAUT, Elfried 
PEROCHON, Arnaud PLACE, David 
PRETI, Stéphane SIMON, Martin TERRIER 
and Rafal ZELAZO.
Guillotine Games would like to thank David 
Doust, Mathieu ChanTsin and Alfredo 
Feilofu.
© 2014 Guillotine Games, all rights reserved. 
No part of this product may be reproduced 
without 
specific 
permission. 
Zombicide, 
Guillotine Games, and the Guillotine Games 
logo are trademarks of Guillotine Games. 
Coolminiornot, 
and 
the 
CoolMiniOrNot 
logo are trademarks of CoolMiniOrNot, 
Inc. Coolminiornot is located at 1290 Old 
Alpharetta Road, Alpharetta, Georgia 30004, 
U.S.A.
Retain this information for your records. Not 
suitable for children under 36 months due to 
small parts. Actual components may vary 
from those shown. Made in China. 
Zombicide
First Edition: August 2012
First Reprint: December 2012
Second Reprint: March 2013
Third Reprint: May 2013
Fourth Reprint: August 2013
Fifth Reprint: January 2014
THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT 
INTENDED FOR USE OF PERSONS 
13 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.
#11
 
INDEX
Abomination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9, 
Accuracy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-11
Activating Zombies . . . . . . . . . . . 12-13
Actor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Assigning hits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16-17
Basic rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-9
Car attack . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11,17-18
Car, getting in or out . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Changing seats in a car . . . . . . . . . 11
Combat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15-18
Combining cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Damage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Danger Level . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Dice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Do nothing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Drive a car . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Dual weapons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
End Phase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4, 32
Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7-8, 15
Experience points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Extra activation card . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Fatty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
First player . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Game overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Hit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15-18
ID Card . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4, 8, 16
Improved weaponry . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Inventory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Line of sight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Make Noise . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Manhole card . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Melee Combat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11, 16
Missions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20-30
Molotov cocktail . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Move Action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Noise . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-7
Noisy weapons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Number of players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Opening doors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Players’ Phase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Range . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Ranged Combat . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16-17
Reloading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Reorganizing inventory . . . . . . . . . . 11
Room . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5, 10
Runner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Running out of zombies . . . . . . . . . 14
Search . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Shooting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11, 16-17
Skills . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-19
Sniper rifle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Spawning Zombies . . . . . . . . . . . 13-14
Starting equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Street . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Survivor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4, 5, 10
Taking an Objective . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Targeting priority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Trading Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Walker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Weapons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15-17
Winning and losing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Wounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Zombie Attack . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Zombie Move . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-13
Zombie splitting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Zombie types . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Zombies’ Phase . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-14
Zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-6

DISCLAIMER: SEVERAL ZOMBIES WERE SEVERELY INJURED 
BY DOUG AND WANDA DURING THIS FOOTNOTE’S COMPILATION.
The first player activates all of his or her Survivors, one after the other, in any order. When 
he or she’s done, the next player’s turn begins. Play clockwise. Each Survivor initially has 
three Actions to spend, chosen from the following list. Unless stated otherwise, each 
Action may be performed several times per turn.
 MOVE: Move one Zone.
 SEARCH: Indoor only. Draw a card in the Equipment deck (always only one Search 
per turn per Survivor).
 OPEN A DOOR: Special Equipment or Skill required. Spawn Zombies inside a 
building if it’s the first door.
 REORGANIZE INVENTORY: Equipment exchange with another Survivor (in the 
same Zone) is possible.
 RANGED COMBAT: Equipped Ranged weapon required.
 MELEE COMBAT: Equipped Melee weapon required.
 GET IN OR GET OUT OF A CAR: Can’t get in if there are Zombies.
 CHANGE SEATS IN A CAR: Move to a different empty seat.
 DRIVE A CAR: If allowed by the Mission. Must be in the driver’s seat. Attacks every 
Actor in the Zones travelled.
 TAKE AN OBJECTIVE TOKEN OR ACTIVATE AN OBJECT (in the Survivor’s Zone).
 MAKE NOISE. Gotta need it to risk it.
 DO NOTHING (and live with it).
1. ACTIVATION	 All Zombies spend one Action doing one of these two things:
 	  ATTACK 	 • Zombies in the same Zone as a Survivor attack them.
 	  OR MOVE 	• The Zombies who didn't Attack, Move. The others are having a brunch. 
• Each Zombie favors visible Survivors, then noise. 
• Choose the shortest path. If needed, split groups and add Zombies 
to make the groups even.
NOTE: Runners get two Actions per turn. Once all Zombies have taken their first Action, 
Runners go though the Activation step again to resolve their second Action.
2. SPAWN
	
• Always draw Zombie cards for all Spawn Zones in the same order (play clockwise).
	
• Danger Level used = highest Danger Level among active Survivors.
	
• Fatties spawn with two Walkers.
	
• No more minis of specified type? All Zombies of specified type get an extra activation!
Choose the first player (he receives the “first player” token)
(as explained by Ned)
(as observed by Josh)
EACH TURN 
BEGINS WITH: 
WHEN EVERY PLAYER’S 
FINISHED:
FIRST 
STEP
PLAYERS' 
ZOMBIES'
NAME
ACTIONS
MIN DMG VALUE TO DESTROY EXPERIENCE POINTS INCOME
Walker
Runner
Fatty (*)
Abomination
(*) Each Fatty comes with 2 Walkers during Spawn phase.
(as written down by Amy)
ZOMBIES 
ECOLOGY
• Remove all Noise tokens from the board.
• The next player receives the “first player” token (play clockwise).
END 
TURN SUMMARY
(by courtesy of your favorite Survivors)
GAME RULES 
OVERRIDE 
THIS TURN SUMMARY
RULES.
 (as defined by Phil)
SURVIVOR  WALKER  FATTY  RUNNER
Abomination counts as a Fatty for targeting purposes.
TARGETING 
PRIORITY